---
blogpost: true
date: 2023-04-03
category: project-190377
---

# The Devil in the Details
Published on 2023-04-03 in {ref}`project-190377`.

While the new servos are mostly a drop-in replacement for the rc
servos, there are still some considerations we have to keep in mind.
The first potential problem is that I'm powering those servos directly
from the LiPO battery, with voltage that is below the recommended
minimal voltage of 4.8V. The analog servos didn't really mind, and a
simple trick of increasing their driving frequency helped with any
weakness problems they could have. But the new servos have an actual
microcontroller inside. Will it work with the lower voltage?

A quick experiment shows that the answer is "yes". I tried them with
voltages as low as 3.2V, and they seem to work perfectly fine. Of
course that doesn't mean there won't be some problems related to this
discovered down the road. I still might need to add a boost converter
to the robot to provide a stable voltage.

Another problem is mechanical in nature. While the case of those new
servos has the same dimensions as those of rc servos, the output shaft
is a little bit smaller and shorter. That is not a huge problem, as
matching servo horns are provided, but turns out that the difference
is enough that the 3mm thick laser-cut leg parts touch the servo case,
which is adding unnecessary friction. I might consider cutting new leg
parts from 2mm acrylic and with smaller holes for the horns, but for
now I will simply use leg parts from earlier versions of the robot,
which are made out of 1.6mm PCB that fits well enough.



:::{image} images/6069071680546317561.jpg

:::


I also designed and ordered a PCB for the body, to connect the servos
more conveniently. In the mean time I can just use the extension
cables provided with the servos.



:::{image} images/3251341680546517770.png

:::


