---
blogpost: true
date: 2023-04-02
category: project-190377
---

# Smart Servos
Published on 2023-04-02 in {ref}`project-190377`.

Hobby servos were not designed for robots â€“ they are mainly for
remote-controlled airplanes and boats, and they were created back in
times of analog radios, when PWM signal was the easiest to multiplex.
While they are relatively cheap and convenient, in that they already
contain the drive train, the motor controller and a position sensor of
sorts, they are pretty lacking in terms of feedback. Yes, you can add
wires to them to be able to read the position of the potentiometer or
the power sent to the motor, or even add some current monitoring
circuit, but it always requires additional components and the use of
additional microcontroller pins, and gets unreliable and tricky when
the servos are not powered with stable voltage.

But there are other servos, that were mostly designed for robots and
similar constructions. Smart servos tend to be slower, with more
torque, two-way digital bus communication, more convenient mounting
options and brackets, and general sense of solidity. They however also
tend to be rather bulky and expensive, and because I prefer to build
small and cheap robots, I never really tried them properly.

But recently I have discovered FeeTech SCS0009 smart servos, which
contain all the logic of a smart servo in a package compatible with a
nine gram hobby servo. Of course they are more expensive, but not so
much that I couldn't run some experiments with them. And since they
are a drop-in replacement for the hobby servos, I don't need to design
a whole new robot for them, I can use all the mechanical parts of the {ref}`project-180025` or {ref}`project-188908` , and probably reuse the PCB as well. The only thing I need to
implement is the new communication protocol. So that's the plan for
now: a version of Fluffbug with smart servos in place of the hobby
servos. And we will see where we can take it from there.



:::{image} images/3992241680428880702.jpg

:::


