---
blogpost: true
date: 2018-05-05
category: project-100853
---

# Battery Life
Published on 2018-05-05 in {ref}`project-100853`.

One of the most important features of a conference badge is that it
has to last through the conference. Which is not that easy, if you
also consider that its display has to be visible from a distance in
full sun, and that you can't use rechargeable lithium batteries. So I
put the prototype badge to a test. I'm using 3 alkaline AAA-sized
batteries, and I'm displaying a simple pattern of light and dark
pixels, that hopefully somehow reflects what will be displayed on
those badges, at least on average. It's also set to 50% overall
brightness, which is currently the default setting, as it is bright
enough to be visible in daylight.



:::{image} images/5010191525545209722.jpg

:::


I'm using a local brand "no name" batteries, because that's likely
what a conference will also use, and it's probably the lowest quality
I can easily get without ordering from China.

At the 9 hour mark I had a small problem: the tablet I used to run the
stopwatch application ran out of battery itself â€” I forgot to connect
it to a charger. But since I made a photo at the beginning of the
experiment, I easily fished the start time from the EXIF data, and
still can tell the exact time.

It's been 11 hours now, and the badge is still working. The voltage
dropped from the initial 4.5V to 3.7V at the 4 hour mark, and to 3.6V
at the 9 hour mark. At 11 hours it's at 3.5V. In theory, the badge
should work down to 2.8V, so I'm really hopeful for this breaking the
12h mark.

