---
blogpost: true
date: 2024-07-25
category: project-178061
---

# S3 with a Module
Published on 2024-07-25 in {ref}`project-178061`.

I finally gave up on the parallel display. It seems that something in
IDF is broken again, and since it's broken now, even if it gets fixed,
chances are that it will break again. I can instead stick to what is
working reliably, especially since the ESP32 can do very fast SPI
clocks, and that might be even faster than the parallel protocol.

In any case, I designed that board with a WROOM module, using the SPI
display, a LiPo battery with a charging circuit, and a bunch of other
extra features: backlight control, battery monitoring, a light sensor,
and all the unused pins broken out to a connector on the back.



:::{image} images/9536251721943151898.png

:::


I assumed the popular Nokia BL-5C battery, but I also found some very
thin (3mm) pouch batteries of the same size, so I'm going to use those
in my prototypes. I still need to figure out some way to hold the
battery in place, and maybe some pogo pins for the battery connector.
For now it's held by some masking tape.



:::{image} images/4568981721943341933.jpg

:::


I like the thin pouch battery, because it makes the whole console
almost completely flat:



:::{image} images/4266341721943388017.jpg

:::


As for the software, there were no problems. I prepared a board
definition for CircuitPython, with 16MB flash and 8MB of PSRAM, and
the Stage library enabled. I even added the display initialization to
the firmware. Flashing is easy, because the BOOT button is the X
button, like in the previous version. It worked at the first try.



:::{image} images/573811721943533443.jpg

:::


The power switch is only for the battery power — connecting the USB
always turns the device on, and always charges the battery. It was
easier to do it that way, though it might be annoying if you wanted to
just charge it without switching it on.

As I said, I still don't know how I will solve the battery cover. For
now I attached the PCB of one of the old prototypes on the back, and
that seems to work pretty well. I might do something similar in the
final version.



:::{image} images/6974671721943780003.jpg

:::


I still have some nicer machine screws and washers on order – I should
be able to control the spacing of the layers better with those.

I'm also still not entirely happy with the buttons and the d-pad. I
want to experiment with 3D printing them, but for that I would have to
refresh my OpenSCAD skills a bit, and possibly order a whole bunch of
prototypes to be printed, since I don't have a 3D printer myself. It
might take a lot of back-and-forth to get the spacing right.

