---
blogpost: true
date: 2021-03-05
category: project-178061
---

# Challenges
Published on 2021-03-05 in {ref}`project-178061`.

You might think that there is absolutely nothing challenging in simply
connecting a screen and a bunch of buttons to a microcontroller
development board, and you would be right. I have done it so many
times by now, that it should be simple even for me. However, as the
saying goes, the devil is in the details.

First of all, this is the first time I'm using the Raspberry Pi Pico
development board, and it's not like other development boards out
there. On one hand, it has a build-in buck-boost converter, which
makes it nice to use with the batteries, on the other hand it doesn't
have the power switching circuitry that disables battery when USB is
connected — so there is an extra bit of electronics with a MOSFET
needed to be added. I'm worried about this, because I have always had
bad experiences with power circuits like that.

Next is the audio output. On my previous consoles, there simply was a
DAC pin, where you connected the speaker or the amplifier and speaker,
and you were done. Here the audio output is PWM-based, and I will need
a low-pass filter to smooth it a bit before feeding to an amplifier.
Plus, I want to have a volume control, but the only small sliding
potentiometer I found is around 9kΩ, which is a bit low to just make
it a simple voltage divider. Some experimenting will be needed, and
again, analog circuits are scary.

Then there is the display backlight. It uses four internal LEDs, and I
could do what I did previously, just connect them straight to the
battery with a current-limiting resistor. But it would be nice to have
backlight control, and even a light sensor, to adjust the backlight
brightness to the environment. More scary transistors and analog
circuits to worry about.

Finally, and that is going to actually take the most work, there is
the question of design. Selecting the best (both in terms of
functionality and price) components, and finding an arrangement of
them that is both functional and aesthetically pleasing. Designing the
shape of the device, its case and its controls. I have already done
some work on this, much much more remains.

