---
blogpost: true
date: 2021-03-25
category: project-178061
---

# Parallel Bus
Published on 2021-03-25 in {ref}`project-178061`.

The displays arrived a few days ago, but I really didn't have the
energy to get them working until today. Yesterday I found my Universal
Display Breakout Board™ and soldered the display to it. Today I
connected a Feather RP2040 to it, and tried to get it working. Turns
out there are a couple of tricks to it.



:::{image} images/9621901616709501960.jpg

:::


First of all, the IM0-3 pins are not broken out, so there is no way to
switch the interface mode, and it comes in the 16-bit parallel mode by
default. But wait a minute, the Aliexpress page said it was compatible
with 8-bit mode, so how? I asked the seller, but before I got the
answer, I noticed this little note on the screenshots of the datasheet
at the product page:



:::{image} images/4164511616709933038.png

:::


That, I assume, explains, in perfectly clear Chinese, how to switch
the iterface modes. It even tells you which pins to use in each mode!
I mean, probably. I don't read Chinese. But let's look closer at the
display:



:::{image} images/1646031616710053487.jpg

:::


Ah-ha! The aforementioned R16 and R8, and only one of them is
populated. And that is a 0Ω resistor, if I'm not mistaken. So I only
need to move it from R16 to R8 and that should switch the mode. Easy.
Later the seller confirmed this, I assume this is direct translation
of the above note:

<blockquote >When R16 connect resistance, it is 16-bit interface, DB15-DB0 are
useful (default 16-bit)\
When R8 connect resistor, it is 8-bit interface, DB15-DB8 are useful</blockquote>With that out of the way, there is one more trick. Have you noticed
how it tells you that DB15-DB8 should be used in 8-bit mode? But the
datasheet for ILI9341 says DB0-DB7... I wonder why they specified
those pins in reverse order, hmm... Yes, of course the pins are
reversed. What is labeled as DB15 is actually DB0, and so on. I feel
really smart for figuring it out at first try, before I connected the
wires.

But no worries, I immediately felt less smart for making stupid off-
by-one errors connecting the wires, so that's balanced.

The final trick relates to the backlight LEDs. The pinout has two pins
marked as LED-A, and five pins marked as LED-1 to LED-5. So logically,
the two pins are common anodes (doubled so that you can put more
current through the pins), and each of the five LED pins is the
cathode of one of the five backlight LEDs. So in the final design, we
will need a MOSFET on the anodes, and five resistors on the cathodes.
Well, closer examination of the traces tells a different story. Both
LED-A pins merge into a single trace — that is somewhat expected, even
though that trace is no wider than others. But also all the cathodes
merge into a single thin trace, and then split again near the display
where the backlight is connected! That is some bad practice there, but
at least that saves my four resistors, I suppose.

With everything connected, a little bit of code:\



```
import displayio
import board


_INIT_SEQUENCE = (
    b"\x01\x80\x80"  # Software reset then delay 0x80 (128ms)
    b"\xEF\x03\x03\x80\x02"
    b"\xCF\x03\x00\xC1\x30"
    b"\xED\x04\x64\x03\x12\x81"
    b"\xE8\x03\x85\x00\x78"
    b"\xCB\x05\x39\x2C\x00\x34\x02"
    b"\xF7\x01\x20"
    b"\xEA\x02\x00\x00"
    b"\xc0\x01\x23"  # Power control VRH[5:0]
    b"\xc1\x01\x10"  # Power control SAP[2:0];BT[3:0]
    b"\xc5\x02\x3e\x28"  # VCM control
    b"\xc7\x01\x86"  # VCM control2
    b"\x36\x01\x38"  # Memory Access Control
    b"\x37\x01\x00"  # Vertical scroll zero
    b"\x3a\x01\x55"  # COLMOD: Pixel Format Set
    b"\xb1\x02\x00\x18"  # Frame Rate Control (In Normal Mode/Full Colors)
    b"\xb6\x03\x08\x82\x27"  # Display Function Control
    b"\xF2\x01\x00"  # 3Gamma Function Disable
    b"\x26\x01\x01"  # Gamma curve selected
    b"\xe0\x0f\x0F\x31\x2B\x0C\x0E\x08\x4E\xF1\x37\x07\x10\x03\x0E\x09\x00"  # Set Gamma
    b"\xe1\x0f\x00\x0E\x14\x03\x11\x07\x31\xC1\x48\x08\x0F\x0C\x31\x36\x0F"  # Set Gamma
    b"\x11\x80\x78"  # Exit Sleep then delay 0x78 (120ms)
    b"\x29\x80\x78"  # Display on then delay 0x78 (120ms)
)

displayio.release_displays()
bus = displayio.ParallelBus(
    data0=board.D4,
    command=board.A1,
    chip_select=board.A0,
    write=board.A2,
    read=board.A3,
    reset=board.D24,
    frequency=62_500_000,
)
display = displayio.Display(bus, _INIT_SEQUENCE, width=320, height=240)

```

And the display is working. I even put the Vacuum Invaders on it to
see how fast it is. 



:::{image} images/5984381616710861673.jpg

:::


And here is a disappointment. Even with a parallel interface at
supposed 62Mhz, the refresh of the display is visibly slower than the
ST7735 with 40MHz SPI. Sure, there are four times more pixels there,
but it still doesn't seem right. I suspect that it is actually 31MHz,
and that there are some considerable pauses in the data being sent,
because that's the only thing I can think of that would explain the
slow refresh and bad tearing. Oh well, I suppose I will get back to
SPI. I will test it on another ILI9341 display, with a smaller
diagonal, because I have it at hand.

