---
blogpost: true
date: 2015-09-01
category: project-7522
---

# Acrylic Nuts and Bolts
Published on 2015-09-01 in {ref}`project-7522`.

One of the more important challenges in the design of MeArm is making
it as light as possible, especially at the end of the arm, where there
is the longest lever and the inertia is the worst. But if you look at
the robot, it has 10 metal bolts in there, which are quite heavy. So
what can be done without laser-cutting my own version of the gripper
that would use fewer bolts?

When I was looking for bolts for the {ref}`project-6608` , I stumbled upon those acrylic bolts. They are like completely normal
nuts and bolts, except they are made out of acrylic, instead of metal.
And they are light. Sure, they are not as strong as metal bolts, but
they are as strong as the rest of MeArm, so it doesn't matter. They
fit this project perfectly:


:::{image} images/965201441142440985.jpg

:::


Now, there is a trick to using them. You will need one normal metal
bolt, to thread the holes first. Preferably several times, and make
sure you get all the way through, because if you don't, you are going
to break the acrylic bolts trying to force them in. After screwing the
bolt in and out several times, you can screw in the acrylic bolt, and
cut it to size with wire clippers. Easy.

You can see on the picture that I didn't replace one bolt inside the
robot, and the four bolts in the base. The bolts in the base are
longer than the acrylic bolts I had, and they don't matter for the
weight of the arm itself anyways, and the bolt in the middle was just
too hard to get to without disassembling the whole robot first, so I
let it be. It's close to the center of gravity anyways, so it
shouldn't matter that much.

