---
blogpost: true
date: 2016-12-31
category: project-3736
---

# Distance Sensor
Published on 2016-12-31 in {ref}`project-3736`.

For the first time ÂµBob has a working distance sensor on board (you
might recall I tried to give it a distance sensor earlier, but it
didn't work). So let's make use of it.

The sensor I'm using is a SHARP GP2Y0A60SZLF on a breakout board from
Pololu. It's an analog sensor, which is good, because I can use only a
single pin for it. All I have to do is get the ADC to work. A bit of
googling for examples, and a little bit of cross-checking with the
datasheet, and I had the basic procedure:\





```cpp
ADCSRA = 1<<ADEN | 1<<ADPS2 | 1<<ADPS1 | 0<<ADPS0; // Pre-scaler 64.
ADMUX = 0<<ADLAR | 0<<REFS1 | 0<<REFS0 | pin & 0x03;
ADCSRA |= 1<<ADSC;
while (ADCSRA & (1<<ADSC)) {
    // Pass.
}
return ADCH << 8 | ADCL;

```

However, that didn't work. I spent half a day trying to figure out why
it would keep returning the same number all the time, changing only on
reset. Everything was exactly the same as in the datasheet, the
examples, even the Arduino cores that I checked. What did I miss?
After asking around a bit on IRC and robotics forums, someone pointed
out to me that the order in which you read ADCH and ADCL is important
-- there is a latch there, that makes sure the values won't change in
the middle of your reading. Sure enough, I had the order wrong. The
fix is very simple -- I can defer to the compiler to do the right
thing by just doing:




```cpp
return ADC;
```

 That's it. Suddenly I started getting changing values, as expected.
However, the changes still weren't in any way correlated with the
voltage on the pin... Back to the drawing board. Four re-readings of
the datasheet later I just tried the same program on a different chip,
and it worked fine. Turns out the ATtiny85 that I have soldered to a
breakout board some 2 years ago and used since for all sorts of
uncanny experiments must have gotten the ADC broken somehow --
possibly by applying higher voltage than it should get.

In any case, the next step is checking the range of the sensor. I
don't have any way to display the readings from the robot (and I want
to check the readings in the robot, not on a separate circuit, because
the voltages would be different), so I wrote a simple program that
basically moves a servo depending on the value read from the sensor.
Since I know the servo's range, I can guess what the reading was.

That worked pretty well, now I just need to fine-tune the walking
algorithm to make the robot go straight, add some animations for
turning and going backwards, and make a simple state machine switching
between those animations depending on the sensor readings. Should fit
in the ~400 bytes of program space I have left.

