---
blogpost: true
date: 2015-06-04
category: project-3736
---

# Second Chance
Published on 2015-06-04 in {ref}`project-3736`.

As I mentioned previously, I'm remaking ÂµBob's brains. It's still
going to be an ESP8266, but this time it's the ESP-12 module, and it's
properly mounted on a printed circuit board that I have etched myself!
Also, a distance sensor. But first, the board:


:::{image} images/4866721433421696717.jpg

:::


As you can see, the quality is abysmal. After several failed attempts
at transferring the toner from the printed page to the board properly,
I finally decided to call it "good enough", fix the most glaring
problems with acrylic paint and etch the thing. Surprisingly, the
drilling went well and I only broke one drill bit. Then I covered all
the traces with solder, and fixed the broken traces with small pieces
of wire. Soldered all the parts, and here it is:


:::{image} images/8937801433422061381.jpg

:::


You can see the module, the distance sensor, and one of the two SMD
capacitors I had to add for it. On the other side:


:::{image} images/8516881433422111952.jpg

:::


You see the four servo sockets, the power switch, and a bunch of
headers for power and debugging. Then I went over the board with an
ohm-meter. And I'm glad I did! after removing a couple of short
circuits that would have fried my programmer, I decided I'm ready to
risk, and actually connected the thing to my computer:


:::{image} images/4002461433422229553.jpg

:::


Seems like at least some connections work, because I was able to flash
Micropython to it, and get a REPL prompt on the serial console. I'm
afraid to check if the servo connections and the distance sensor
work...

Also, I will have to upload NodeMCU firmware to it for now, as the
Micropython one doesn't support PWM yet, and I'm not sure I'm up to
bit-banging it by brute force.

