---
blogpost: true
date: 2017-01-20
category: project-13278
---

# 20ch Firmware Improvements
Published on 2017-01-20 in {ref}`project-13278`.

Today I spent several hours working on the firmware -- adding the
address selection support and making the whole thing much robust.

The first thing I added, was to modify place where the servo events
are updated. Until now, they were updated immediately after the I2C
transaction finished -- as soon as we had the servo pulses. But that
meant that if you are unlucky, it could happen while the timer
interrupt fires, and the data seen by the interrupt would be
inconsistent. We can't switch off the interrupts while updating the
events, because it takes very long time, and our timings would be
completely off then. So what can be done? Well, all the events
typically happen in the first 2ms of the cycle. We have 18ms left to
update the events (that's also why the glitch wasn't so easily
visible). So now, when the I2C transaction finishes, a flag is set
signalling that an update is needed. Then, while waiting for more I2C
data, the loop checks that flag and whether the last event in the
cycle has been already processed. As soon as the last even is
processed (which we can recognize by the fact that it has delay of
0xffff), we update the events and clear the flag. Sounds easy, but it
took me some hours to get right.

Unfortunately, that didn't eliminate all the glitches. The second
problem happens when you have two events very close to each other --
so close, that processing of the first one finishes after the second
one's scheduled time. You could expect the second event to be a bit
late then, but it's actually much worse -- since the interrupts fire
on equality, and not whenever the counter overflows the trigger, the
interrupt for the second event is skipped entirely and never fires --
the pin is only updated in the next event, or never, if that event was
the last one. Ouch. I spent some time optimizing the interrupt routine
and moving stuff in it to make it a bit more robust, but it's never
processed instantly, and the problem remains. In the end, I'm just
looking for events that happen too soon after the previous one, and
when that happens, merge them with that previous event. It introduces
a few microseconds of a glitch, but that's better than the
alternative.

For the address selection, I had to use the analog-only pins of the
ATmegaXX8. I was already a bit tired when I started on it, so I
stupidly copied the code from my {ref}`project-9769`  project, forgetting that it's for an ATtiny85. And it mostly worked
-- the AVR chips are very similar, after all, especially when using
the correct header files with the right macros -- except that I masked
wrong bits in the mux selection. It took me sever tries to track that
down, but once I found it the fix was trivial.

The next bug is related to the internal pullups I'm enabling on the
I2C lines. Turns out I had the masks for the PWM routines slightly
wrong, and they were also toggling the pullups. The effects on the I2C
transmission were... interesting, if not a bit nondeterministic. It
helped that I got a really nice logic analyzer for Christmas, that
also has an analog channel, and that I could see the voltage levels on
the I2C lines acting weird, even when there was no data being
transmitted. Fixing this while keeping the interrupt routines as fast
as possible took several tries, but I managed to move all the
operations into the event update routines in the end.

The last thing I added is sending a stop condition on the I2C bus
whenever something unexpected happens on it. That lets me recover from
errors in communication more easily.

