---
blogpost: true
date: 2020-12-19
category: project-13278
---

# Maybe SX1509?
Published on 2020-12-19 in {ref}`project-13278`.

It's been a long while since I made this shield, and the PCA9685 chip
that it uses has been in service for driving servos even longer.
Meanwhile, I have been on a lookout for a more modern and smaller chip
that could provide a similar function. The PCA9685 is not perfect,
because it is actually a LED driver, which just happens to have
adjustable PWM frequency allowing us to abuse it to generate a 50Hz
servo signal. Still, it contains constant-current drivers that we
don't need, and we only use a small part of its duty cycle range.

So what could be other chips that we could possibly use? If you look
around a little for "PWM chips", it seems that chip manufacturers only
recognize two use cases for PWM signal: buck/boost converters and LED
drivers, and in both cases they prefer relatively high frequencies, at
least 29kHz, if not 33Mhz. That is useless for us, sadly, so we need
to look in other places.

Recently I have stumbled upon a really weird chip, SX1509. It's IÂ²C-
controlled GPIO multiplexer, but with some extra features, that
include voltage level shifters, a keyboard matrix scanner and, last
but not least, a PWM LED driver. So maybe we could use it for our
servos?

I ordered a breakout board with this chip somewhere at the beginning
of this year, and I have been putting away working on it for a looong
time. But now with the holiday break, I decided to finally sit down
and try it. So I downloaded the datasheet, got a Trinket M0 running
CircuitPython out of one drawer, and a pocket oscilloscope out of
another, and I started to poke at the registers.

Sadly, this is another failure, for two reasons: first, the slowest
frequency I managed to get for the PWM signal is 121Hz, over twice as
much as the required 50Hz; second, it only has 8 bits of resolution
for the duty cycle length, and that's over the whole range, of which
we only need a small part, so it would be even worse than the 12 bits
we get with the PCA9685.

But I guess I will keep it in my drawer if I ever need to multiplex
GPIO pins while level-shifting to two different voltages, scanning a
keyboard matrix and blinking LEDs.

