---
blogpost: true
date: 2017-12-04
category: project-13278
---

# Fabrication and Version 2.0
Published on 2017-12-04 in {ref}`project-13278`.

There is a relatively high demand for this board on Tindie, so when I
sold the last of the 75 hand-assembled modules, I stated looking at
fabrication options. Unfortunately, for a board with so many soldering
points (the servo socket headers), it was relatively expensive. I
didn't realize that the work I was doing by hand is worth so much. In
any case, I asked several fabrication services for quotes, and since I
didn't want to increase the price too much, went with the cheapest
one, which turned out to be PCBWay.

They were very helpful all along the way. The bill of materials CSV
file I sent them didn't parse quite well for them (probably because I
wrote it by hand in Vim), but they had no problem with me just
including an ASCII-art table in the e-mail instead. On every step of
the process they sent me photos, asking if it looks correct. They also
tried to catch possible errors themselves: for example, my BOM didn't
include the stacking headers that I add to every module — they saw
them in the photo and asked if they need to be added. (I send them
unsoldered, so I add them later myself). There was also one small
glitch when they initially wanted to use straight pin headers instead
of angled ones, but because they sent me the photo I could point out
the mistake, and there was no problem switching to the correct
headers.

I choose the cheapest shipping (again to keep the price low), but it
still arrived without problems in 2 weeks. Here's a photo of the
package I got:



:::{image} images/7901051512382432339.jpg

:::


The anti-static bags on the bottom contain the soldered panels (I
choose to depanelize them myself, again to save costs). The rest of
the bags are all the left-over parts, including one unsoldered PCB
panel of 5 modules.

A quick test shows that the modules work very well.

All in all, I'm very happy with them. You can buy the new modules on
Tindie here:  [https://www.tindie.com/products/deshipu/16-channel-servo-shield-
for-d1-mini-version-20](https://www.tindie.com/products/deshipu/16-channel-servo-shield-for-d1-mini-version-20/) 

