---
blogpost: true
date: 2020-09-29
category: project-174917
---

# Where are All the Keys?
Published on 2020-09-29 in {ref}`project-174917`.

With just 47 keys on this keyboard, there has to be some trick for
getting all the missing keys somehow, so I'm going to try and explain
how the 40% layouts usually work.

Of course the main trick is layers and layer switching keys. The
mechanism should be familiar from laptops or on-screen keyboards: you
have a special key, that, when pressed switches the keyboard into a
mode in which the keys have different functions than normally. This is
common for F1-F12 keys on laptops, or for media keys, but sometimes
even for keys like Home, End, PgUp and PgDn. On the 40% keyboards you
have to use this switching key pretty much for anything that us not a
letter.

Let's look at an example. Here's the layout of Dorsch 48k:



:::{image} images/5222941601368923598.png

:::


The legends in the upper left corner of the keys are what you get if
you just simply press that key. They are usually all placed as close
to the original location of the given key on a "standard" keyboard.

Now, suppose you want to type "1". You look for it, and you see it's
on the "Q" key, but in the lower right corner. That means you need to
press a function key, labelled "Raise", and then the "Q" key. They
keyboard will act as if you pressed the "1" key.

But what if you wanted to press "!"? You could press and hold "Raise",
then press and hold "Shift" and then press "Q", but that is a bit of
gimnastics, so the Planck layout that this layout is loosely based on
invented a shortcut: the "Lower" key, which is basically equivalent to
"Raise"+"Shift". So to type "!" you simply press and hold "Lower" and
then press "Q". This way you almost never have to press more than two
keys at once. The "Raise" and "Lower" keys are pressed with your
thumbs, so they don't interfere with your regular typing movements.

The only problem is that you now how to learn where all the symbols
are again. But if you look carefully, you will notice that they are
pretty much in the same places as on a regular keyboard, only
compressed a little bit. So the top row is numbers, like on QWERTY,
with the minus and plus keys wrapped around. Quote and colon merged
together, question mark moved up one row, and square brackets got
pushed down a bit, but they now sit on the same keys as greater than
and lower than, so that's easy to remember. Backslash is always a
problem, it landed in the only spot that was left.

All the cursor movement keys are in their logical places too. Page up
and down are on up and down arrows, and Home and End are on the left
and right ones. Del and Ins got moved away a bit in this particular
layout, because I *really* need the right Alt key where it is, for
typing Polish accented characters. Normally Del would go there, so
it's together with all the other cursor movement keys.

I still have some room for additional keys if I needed them.
Backspace, for example, could have a "lock screen" as a second
function. But I figured I will be adding those as I need them and get
used to the rest.

