---
blogpost: true
date: 2020-09-20
category: project-174917
---

# Undoing 150 Years of Bad Design
Published on 2020-09-20 in {ref}`project-174917`.

Computer keyboards are sub-optimal. Everybody knows that. You can find
hundreds of articles extolling the virtues of alternate layouts that
tell the story of how first typewriters had their keys in an
alphabetic order, but they would jam, so they have been rearranged to
slow the typist down and avoid jamming. Those stories are mostly made
up, and virtually all research that shows substantial improvements
from using layouts like Dvorak is done by the proponents of those
layouts themselves. People get so focused on that debate, that they
ignore other problems computer keyboards have.

Typewriters were complex, precise mechanical devices, very expensive
to make. That means that if there was a change to the design that made
it slightly less comfortable or required getting used to, but made the
machine easier to build, it was embraced. Today there is no reason to
keep following all those design decisions, but they have become
tradition.

Take the staggering of the keys. If you look at a traditional
keyboard, you will note that the Q key is shifted by ¼ horizontally
from A, and that A is similarly shifted by ½ from Z. The reason for
this is not human convenience, it's because the keys were originally
mounted on metal stems, and there needed to be room for the stems to
go all the way up to the rest of the mechanism. This doesn't seem to
matter much, until you start to learn proper touch-typing and they
tell you that your fingers should follow the "columns" of keys. What
columns, you ask, they are all jumbled up! Well, the columns that
would be there if they weren't jumbled up:



:::{image} images/7376041600594218507.png

:::


Also note how your right pinky finger – the smallest and weakest
finger you have – is supposed to handle 13 keys, just because the
whole layout is skewed that way.

I have struggled with this for years, because it simply doesn't make
any sense — it's easier to press the B key with right hand, and to
press the Y key with left, for example. Don't even mention using the
correct finger.

Or another thing, the relative sizes of the keys. Originally typing
machines were powered by the muscles of the typist. And you needed to
use quite some force to get it to work properly. But the most force
was needed on the special keys that did something else than just swing
a tiny little hammer — the space bar, which moved the whole mechanism
forward, the enter key (or rather, lever), which scrolled the sheet of
paper, the shifts that moved the whole assembly up or down, and the
backspace. And if you look at the keyboard, those are the largest
keys. It's because it was easier to press them with force when they
were bigger, but on a computer keyboard, where each key has the same
tiny switch underneath it makes no sense, maybe with the small
exception of the space bar, which needs to accommodate or famous
opposable thumbs.

Then there is the issue of the number of keys. Some typewriters had
separate keys for lower and for upper case letters — Linotype is one
famous machine that retained this design. Others introduced the
"shift", which moved the whole mechanism a little, so that the second
set of symbols could be used. But there was still quite a lot of keys
needed, so traditional layouts have five rows of keys. On any touch-
typing lessons they tell you that your hands should rest on the so
called "home row" — where the F and J keys are, and only reach up or
down from there, without moving your wrist. But this is impossible for
most people with average finger length — to reach the number row you
already have to stretch, and reaching the functions keys or the Esc
key is practically impossible without moving your hands. There are too
many rows of keys! (And also all those keys to the right of the
keyboard, there is now way you can reach them with your poor pinky.)
Today we don't need all those rows, we can have as many modifier keys
for switching layers as we want. In fact, we already have those Ctrl
and Alt and Super keys that we hardly ever use.

And then we have thumbs. I suspect the original designers of
typewriters must have had them severely atrophied, because the only
thing you were supposed to do with your strongest fingers was to press
the space bar. Which at first wasn't even a key. All the other
modifier keys that are doing heavy lifting moving the whole mechanism
around are supposed to be pressed with your pinky fingers. Thumbs are
severely underused.

I could keep going, but you probably already see where I'm going with
this. Most of those design decisions are unnecessary at best, and
harmful at worst today. Let's get rid of them, and use mechanical
design that makes sense with modern technology. That means straight
columns, regularly sized keys, fewer rows, more modifier keys, and
keys operated with thumbs. That pretty much means Planck layout, or
something similar to that.



:::{image} images/1153521600596073975.png

:::


This is the layout I am currently using with my Dorsch 48k. It's
loosely based on Planck, but with some small tweaks to make it more
similar to traditional keyboards (T-shaped arrow key block, Enter in
the correct position, two Shifts). Most importantly, this layout makes
it much easier to touch-type — in fact, you do it intuitively, because
there is simply no room to move your hands anywhere.

