---
blogpost: true
date: 2018-08-16
category: project-159733
---

# Version X
Published on 2018-08-16 in {ref}`project-159733`.

It's a kind of anniversary: I have reached the tenth prototype of the
"standalone" version of PewPew. Admittedly, not all prototypes have
been actually realized in hardware, but many were, and all were ready
for it. In any case, I present you the tenth version:



:::{image} images/6875031534378873937.png

:::


I took some liberties in the design of the back side, since it will be
mostly hidden anyways:



:::{image} images/1656991534378931811.png

:::


As you can see I narrowed the device back to the 32mm of the LED
matrix, and I squeezed the pin header underneath, only accessible from
the bottom. I think this makes the whole design more robust, and
doesn't much affect convenience. I can put a color sticker on the top
edge of the matrix to serve as a legend for the pins.

I'm also considering adding laser-cut pieces on the underside and top,
similar to how this year's Hackaday Belgrade badge had. This way it
will be thicker and easier to hold. Of course they are optional. I
will prototype them with wood for now.

There is another option in there — I added a footprint for a voltage
regulator next to the power switch. It will be unpopulated by default,
but if you add it, you can use the device without battery, just
connected to USB.

The battery holder is for 2×AAA batteries, and I made holes for two
versions — because the order of cables coming out of them seems to be
mostly random. A 2×AA holder would fit too, but it would cover the pin
header, so not recommended.

There are two mounting holes next to the pin header. Those can be used
to securely attach any kind of larger add-ons for the device. The
laser-cut parts will have a suitable cutout, of course. There is also
plenty of holes for either attaching a case, or attaching the device
to a larger contraption.

Finally, I made both the power switch and the USB port a little bit
recessed — so that they don't stick outside the outline of the board.
That should make it easier to carry it in your pocket.

Oh, and I even made a schematic!



:::{image} images/5215881534379563122.png

:::


