---
blogpost: true
date: 2015-08-15
category: project-6050
---

# Proprioception Revisited: Touch
Published on 2015-08-15.

Sensing the positions of limbs and the forces acting on them is just
part of the proprioception, there is also the sense of touch and the
inner ear. Today we will do touch.

I spent a really long time looking for the right touch sensor for the
robot's feet. Everything I tried was either too imprecise, too hard to
trigger, too unreliable or too hard to build. I needed something off-
the shelf that I could put on the end of the leg and that would tell
me whether it's touching the ground or not. Seems easy.


---
The obvious first choice is microswitch pushbuttons, similar to that
reset switch on the Pro Mini. Small, light, easy to install, simple,
reliable. Except the force you have to use to make one "click" is way
too large for Tote's mass. It can basically stand on them and still
have them off.

Second, endstop switches. The ones with a lever. Turns out that they
have pretty large travel, and that it's hard to attach them such that
the lever is at the right angle. And if you remove the lever to make
the travel smaller, they become too hard to trigger, like the
pushbuttons.

Then came a lot of more exotic solutions. Force sensors from kitchen
scales are way too expensive and too large. Bend sensors are too
unreliable, and would require an opamp to actually detect the
difference with Arduino's ADC. I had some limited success with a
whisker in a metal tube, but that was definitely too hard to make for
regular people. I even tried an optical sensor, but that only worked
on flat surfaces, which kinda misses the whole point.

Finally, someone pointed me to a website of an electronics parts store
where you can search the switches by the force required to switch
them, and turns out there are switches that only require 0.3N! They
are not pushbuttons or endstops, though. They are used for detecting
whether a card is inserted into a slot. Once I knew that, I easily
found and ordered those babies:


:::{image} https://cdn.hackaday.io/images/842901439652196480.jpg

:::


They are perfect for mounting at the tips of the robot's legs. See
those plastic studs? They fit perfectly into the holes on that servo
horn! And they are super-sensitive!

So add some wires, glue the switches to the legs, connect them all in
series and attach to a free pin on the Arduino (since at most one leg
is in the air at any given time, I only need one pin), and voila, a
robot with a sense of touch:


:::{image} https://cdn.hackaday.io/images/1721441439652461744.jpg

:::


Of course we also need software to make use of those sensors. For now
I went with something really simple -- just keep lowering the leg
slowly until it touches the ground. You can see the code in [the "switches" branch](https://bitbucket.org/thesheep/tote/src/80f55d5a512f389c991f28f3e281c279de9f15d6/start/creep.ino?at=switches#creep.ino-102) . And the effect? See for yourself:


<iframe style="width: 500px; height: 281px;" width="500" height="281" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="None" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-KoazMHrplg"></iframe>

If you look closely you will notice, that even after the robot extends
the leg far down because it didn't find the floor, it moves it back to
its default position anyways -- that's why the robot's body stays at
the same height even several steps, despite the imprecision of the
switches. To make this actually useful, one would need to modify the
gait code to keep the body at constant height relative to the average
of the heights of all the legs. I will leave that as an exercise for
the reader, though (or a future experiment log).

