---
blogpost: true
date: 2015-08-01
category: project-6050
---

# New New Printed Circuit Board
Published on 2015-08-01.

You know how it is. As soon as you get your hands on the new PCB and
assemble another prototype to test it, you get a million ideas for
improvements to it. That's what happened when I got the version 3 of
the Tote's body, and it lead to a complete overhaul in version 4.


:::{image} https://cdn.hackaday.io/images/2318771438434731294.png

:::



---
The most obvious change is the size. So far all the Tote's PCB were
38×38mm, simply because that size works well. But the servo horns
stick out of the PCB quite far, so the robot is in fact bigger than
that. Why not reclaim that space to have more room for all the
components? Version 4 of the PCB is now 49×49mm, taking advantage of
the maximum size of the board I can order cheaply. The spacing of legs
is exactly the same, and there are holes there for the servo horns.
That not only makes the whole construction a little bit more rigid,
but also lets me attach the servo horns in parallel, instead of
diagonally, reclaiming some of the precious space on the board, and
making possible a host of other small improvements.

All components are now on a single side of the board, and the only
traces that are on the bottom layer are ground. That means, that the
whole bottom layer of the board is practically one huge ground fill.
The switch and the battery plug are now located in easily accessible
places. All the free pins are broken out in one large matrix, which
also has easy access to ground, battery power and stabilized power, so
that you can connect any sensors in there easily. I dropped the
dedicated spot for an IR sensor, you just connect it on pin 2 as you
would with any other sensor. That means that you will need to cross
the sensor's legs again, unfortunately, though.

There is also a number of holes in the board for making it easier to
add another board or to mount the sensors.

I'm still waiting for the board to arrive from the factory, I hope it
will make it before the Hackaday Prize deadline. As soon as it
arrives, I will make another prototype (I think I will have to
disassemble one of the older ones for the servos).

By the way, don't be fooled by a relatively low version number of this
board! Before I started numbering them, there were lots of prototypes.
I made a photo of most of the old boards that at some point were used
in this robot:


:::{image} https://cdn.hackaday.io/images/1457071438436095243.jpg

:::


That of course doesn't include the boards that are still sitting
inside their robots.