---
blogpost: true
date: 2017-01-11
category: project-6050
---

# New Year Reflections


## Year's Summary

This is one of my oldest projects, and definitely one that I have put
the most total work into so far. With the year's end, I decided to
reflect a bit about the progress made so far and the way forward.\


There wasn't a lot of activity, but some interesting things did happen
last year.

We had a workshop in Belgrade, where we built 20 [#Tote HaD](https://hackaday.io/project/9927) s. I have learned a lot about how (not) to source parts for such an
event, how to run it, what parts are actually hard for people, etc.
There were also some improvements to the construction itself
contributed by the participants -- but only during the workshop. I'm a
bit disappointed that nobody seems to have done anything with their
robot after the workshop -- or, at least, I haven't heard about it. I
think this is an important point to consider.\


There have also been some Tote-inspired builds out there. I helped to
build at least two of them. There are even more unfinished projects,
but I guess that's normal.

On my side, I released another version of the PCB, experimented with
some alternate brains (including the [#Tote Zero](https://hackaday.io/project/9065)  with a Raspberry Pi), and made one of my prototypes look much better
by giving it a chassis and some LED eyes, and a coat of paint. There
has been practically no progress on the software side, despite some
research on the CORDIC algorithms and servo PWM code. I also didn't
experiment much with sensors and behaviors. The step-by-step tutorial
is also empty.

Overall, even though some work got done, and even though I gained some
experience, I'm not particularly happy with the outcomes of the Tote
project. I'm starting to realize that it's not enough to give people a
platform to experiment with -- even if they do experiments and
improvements, it's all for nothing if they don't share them.


## Wrong Goals

I think that part of the problem is that I have been focusing on the
wrong parts of the project. I need to pause and re-evaluate some of
the assumptions I made, and see where that takes me.

When I was just starting with Tote, I still remembered being a student
and not having much of a budget for this kind of projects. So I made
lowering the total cost the number one priority (well, apart from
having it actually work, of course). As I look at this now, this might
have been a mistake. Sure, when you are a student in Poland, price is
the number one factor for anything. But it turns out that most people
who do this hobby stuff actually don't mind spending a little bit more
if that saves them time, makes things more convenient, gives better
results or even just makes things look more shiny. If you are going to
put hours of work into a project anyways, you don't mind waiting a
little bit more to get the extra funds. So I am going to pay less
attention to the price (but still try to keep everything frugal) from
now on.

By default, Tote is controlled with a TV remote, and has no autonomous
functionality. I did that, because I figured it's the simplest
starting point, and also shows off the hardware capabilities, leaving
any software-side innovation to the users. Or maybe I was just lazy.
In any case, I think that this has turned it into a toy, and
discouraged actually programming it. There are some other decisions
that also contributed to it: the need for an external programmer for
programming, the main code written in C++, no easy way to update and
debug the code. I think I should start putting more effort into making
it easier to actually program this robot, and encourage it more. Fast
iteration is the key to good progress. I have become painfully aware
of that recently when working on the recent version [#ÂµBob biped robot](https://hackaday.io/project/3736) , where I had to physically unscrew and detach the legs to access the
chip for programming. That's the best way to make sure nobody ever
changes anything in the program unless they absolutely must. So I need
to try and remove all the obstacles for programming. And also finally
finish the programming tutorial for it.

Simplicity was another design goal (it always is), but I kinda lost
track of it in my pursuit of squeezing as much as possible from the
small budget. It especially shows in my [The Way Forward](https://hackaday.io/project/6050/log/30979-the-way-forward)  log a few months ago and [the crazy PCB design for Tote Zero](https://hackaday.io/project/9065-tote-zero/log/31747-everything-in-one) . Something definitely went wrong there. I really need to break up the
whole design into independent, single-function modules, and I need to
work on lowering the complexity of each of them -- preferably using
ready off-the-shelf parts and modules. I also need to look into making
the assembly easier. One of the goals from the beginning was to not
require any special tools like 3D printers or laser cutters -- so that
you can make it at home easily. However, I forgot that soldering
skills are also an "advanced tool", and that while many people have
access to some way of soldering, soldering tiny, densely packed SMD
components is not a common skill. So I definitely need to review that.

Sourcing the parts is a problem too. From the start the goal was to
use standard, off-the-shelf, easily available components, and I did
follow that. However, in my pursuit to make things cheap and also to
make it easy to reuse whatever parts you might have lying around, I
left a lot of things underspecified. The battery is an excellent
example of that -- I'm mostly using LiPos for toy quadcopters, because
they are cheap, light and can provide a lot of current. But every
manufacturers makes them in a little bit different sizes, with
different plugs (they especially love to swap the + and - leads), and
generally storing and charging them is a bit involved. Because of
that, my designs just leave the battery out, assuming the user will
use whatever he has, and will attach it whenever it fits, usually with
a two-sided tape, or maybe velcro. That's definitely sub-optimal, and
I need to put more focus into specifying the parts a little bit more
precisely and using more standard ones. It's also a very daunting task
to order a couple of servos in one place, a battery in another place,
the pcb in yet another place, the mcrocontroller board in yet another,
etc. -- I think that this stops many people from trying this project.
Of course, the obvious solution would be a kit, but I don't want to be
selling anything... Perhaps I should try looking at Tindie anyways?

Finally, but perhaps most importantly, I need to find a way to disown
this project, to make it a brand of its own, and not something
attached to my name. I think that most people, when they build a
complex project like this, like to "own" it, make it their own -- and
not say "I've build Radomir's robot". I haven't figured out how to do
that yet. Perhaps I will need to team up with some other similar
projects?


## Future Plans

I definitely want to continue working on Tote with the goal of
crowdsourcing innovation in the area of quadruped robots. There will
probably be some large changes, though, as a result of the above goal
changes. I will probably use a different development board, something
that has shields. I will try to make the battery and power more
manageable, and I will put more focus on the documentation and
software side of things.

