---
blogpost: true
date: 2022-03-20
category: project-183834
---

# Mistakes Have Been Made
Published on 2022-03-20 in {ref}`project-183834`.

The sockets arrived, and I assembled the keyboard. I used a double-row
female header to bind together the two parts, in a way that lets me
disconnect them for transport — it was an experiment, and I don't like
it very much. The mechanical connection is pretty wobbly and feels
fragile, and it doesn't look great. But it's workable, so I went ahead
with the rest.

I spent several hours trying to flash the chip and failing, only to
finally discover that I soldered the two capacitors rotated by 90° —
serves me right to put them so close together. Fortunately that was an
easy fix.

A worse problem is the fact that the holes for the plastic parts of
the switches are too loose. It wasn't a problem when I soldered the
switches to the board, but when using the sockets, the mechanical
stability of the switches suffers. I already amended the footprint I
used, and the next version will not have this problem. And there will
have to be a next version, because of one more mistake...

When I went to program this board, I couldn't get a reading from any
of the keys. The program works fine, but no key presses would ever
register. I went through the schematic many times to verify it, I went
through the physical board to check the connections. Turns out I made
a tiny little mistake when I moved the diodes to the back of the board
— I swapped which columns are connected directly to the
microcontroller on the same half, and which go through the connector.
Of course the solution is simple: just solder the chip on the other
half, on the bottom of the board, and that is exactly what I did to
get it finally all working. However, that also makes the USB port go
on the bottom side of the board, and there is not enough clearance for
the USB plug to not hit the desk. I have one USB cable where I
whittled down the plug a bit to make it fit in such situations, so I
could use it like that, but it's not a good solution.

Oh, and of course there were some diodes soldered the wrong way, but
that's so normal that I don't even mention it.

So due to the above mistakes, I won't be publishing version two of
this project, and will go straight to version three.



:::{image} images/5795201647799857192.jpg

:::


