---
blogpost: true
date: 2023-01-30
category: project-180025
---

# Assembly Instructions
Published on 2023-01-30 in {ref}`project-180025`.

With a workshop quickly approaching, it's time to spend some effort on
the documentation. This time I want to make some IKEA-like step-by-
step instructions, so I had to figure out a process for generating the
images of the robot parts. Of course I already have an OpenSCAD model
of the robot, I just had to update it a little and add some detail:



:::{image} images/6311041675158783568.gif

:::


I parametrized the part positions, so that I can easily "explode" the
whole thing, showing individual components. But this kind of image is
too busy and looks bad when printed on paper in monochrome, so the
next step is turning it into a wireframe. After some searching, I
found an STL viewer that can do that, so I generated an STL of the
robot from OpenSCAD and fed it to the viewer. I got something like
this:



:::{image} images/4989841675117427387.png

:::


This is much closer to what I want, but there is still a lot of
unnecessary detail cluttering the picture and making it hard to see
clearly what comes where. So the next step is some manual cleanup in
GIMP:



:::{image} images/7722791675157849157.png

:::


This is exactly what I wanted. Next, I quickly generated scad files
for the individual steps of the assembly, and repeated the process to
get the illustrations. An (almost) finished guide looks like this:



:::{image} images/6004011675117619488.png

:::


I still need to make the image for step 4, but I'm not sure I want to
use OpenSCAD or something else for it. It has to show the orientation
and order of the servo cables in the IDC plugs.

In the meantime, I also updated the git repository to include version
8.2 of the PCB and the new leg design.

