---
blogpost: true
date: 2021-09-03
category: project-180025
---

# Brain Replacement Again
Published on 2021-09-03 in {ref}`project-180025`.

Since I am working on a new revision of the PCB, to incorporate the
improvements suggested during the mentoring session, and some of the
ideas I had since, I'm also wondering whether the choice of the
microcontroller for this robot is still optimal.

I have chosen the SAMD21 for several reasons: it runs CircuitPython,
which is important for me, because I want this robot to be easy to
program; it's a relatively cheap chip, and requires very few extra
components; it has just enough peripherals to drive all the hardware
that is needed; and, last but not least, I have become familiar with
it through all the other projects I used it in.\


However, several years have passed, and situation has changed
considerably. We are in the middle of a chip shortage, which not only
changed the prices of the chips, but also their availability — meaning
that even with the higher prices there is no guarantee of getting the
chip I need. Development of CircuitPython has progressed greatly, and
it's now available for many more platforms. New chips were released,
alongside development boards for them. Perhaps it's time to re-
evaluate my options.

There are in particular two new chips that are supported by
CircuitPython, relatively cheap, and available despite the global
shortage: the ESP32S2 and the RP2040.\


There is one more change that is affecting hobby electronics worldwide
— the European Union has started to crack down on the tax and
certification regulations, which, while mostly unchanged, suddenly
started to be enforced. Suddenly you can't just sell your hobby
projects, claiming it's up to the buyer to ensure they fit whatever
regulations apply — individual hobbyists are suddenly required to
perform CE certification, register for VAT and WEEE, and conform to
RoHS. All this taken together means that I will probably not be able
to bring this project to users by simply producing a few dozen PCBs
and selling them on Tindie. I will probably need to limit myself to
just publishing the design files, and let the users order and assemble
everything themselves. And this means that suddenly ready development
boards look much more appealing than a bare chip in QFN form factor —
not that it's so hard to solder QFN by hand, but people tend to be
scared of it. So I feel like I should be looking at development
boards, and not bare chips here.



:::{image} images/7168161630621595306.jpg

:::


Raspberry Pi Pico is of course one of the boards that I am
considering. Produced by the Raspberry Pi Foundation in bulk, it's
actually cheaper than what I could make with a bare chip and required
components. And unlike the Feathers, it has enough pins to drive all
the servos and have a lot to spare for any additional hardware and
expansions. Unfortunately, also unlike Feathers, it comes without a
battery charging circuit, or even a power switching circuit, so the
PCB for the robot would need to include both, in addition to the
battery protection chip I already have there. The buck/boost converter
is a nice touch, but it doesn't help me in this case, where I need to
power the servos directly from the LiPO battery anyways. Another
downside is a lack of shields for this form factor — they basically
came up with their own thing. So I would either need to make my own
shields for anything extra I wanted to put on the robot, or put
additional headers for shields on the PCB, effectively making an
adapter board. Both options don't sound so bad, but there is some
extra consideration here.



:::{image} images/1388471630622043342.png

:::


Another option to consider is the WEMOS S2 Mini. I really loved the D1
Mini form factor, and I have made many shields for it. This board is
compatible with that, but it adds another row of pins on both sides. I
could make the robot make use of the inner pins internally, and leave
the outer ones to be used by shields. It also comes with wireless
capability, which could make it much easier to control the robot, and
even send telemetry back. To make things even more interesting, there
is a new  [adafruit_ov2640 module in CircuitPython](https://circuitpython.readthedocs.io/projects/ov2640/en/latest/index.html) , allowing taking pictures, and possibly sending them over WiFi or
even processing them on the chip. It can also be used with the Pico,
but then what will I do with the image, without connectivity?

I'm currently leaning towards the S2 Mini, even though I haven't yet
figured out how to place the board on the PCB so that the antenna is
not next to the servo motors. I'm still waiting for the boards I
ordered to arrive, though.

