---
blogpost: true
date: 2021-09-23
category: project-180025
---

# Selecting Pins
Published on 2021-09-23 in {ref}`project-180025`.

Before I finish the new PCB I need to make some decisions. In
particular, I need to decide which pins of the microcontroller are
going to be used for what. At the minimum I will need eight pins for
controlling the servos, so let's start with that and see which ones
are suitable for that.



:::{image} images/9278501632396600658.jpg

:::


I connected a servo to he development board, and created a PWM object
on one of the pins, with 50Hz signal and duty cycle of about 4000 —
that is close to the center of the servo position. It worked at first
try. Some more tests let me conclude that I an use any of the pins for
the servos, but I can only create eight PWM objects at a time, which
is just enough, but which means I won't be able to use PWM for the
speaker or for any LED fading or things like that, which is a bit of a
shame. I might reconsider adding the speaker.

But there is one more constraint that I need to consider: I would
really want to have a camera shield for this robot, with the OV2640
camera. And it would be bad if any of the pins I picked for the servos
were required for the camera. So I need to figure out which pins are
needed for the camera. For this I have turned to [Adafruit's Learn Guide on the subject](https://learn.adafruit.com/capturing-camera-images-with-circuitpython/espressif-kaluga-setup#adapting-to-other-esp32-s2-boards-3098327-18) . And again, it looks like I can use pretty much any pins there, as
long as there are enough of them available.  Unfortunately, it needs a
lot of them — from 14 to 16, depending on whether I want to have
control over the reset and shutdown pins. The S2 Mini exposes 26 pins,
27 counting the LED. Let's see, I will need 8 pins for the servos, 4
for the leg switches, 14 for the camera, that's 26 exactly already.
Ouch.

It seems that it is just doable. We will see.

In the process of this research I also collected the documentation for
the OV2640 camera sensor and what is required for building a camera
shield for the S2 Mini — but that is going to be a separate project.

