---
blogpost: true
date: 2021-07-31
category: project-180025
---

# Cable Management
Published on 2021-07-31 in {ref}`project-180025`.

Cable management is a big problem when you have a moving construction
with eight servos. It doesn't help that by default the servos come
with relatively long cables, and this three-pin plug on the end, that
is hard to replace without special tools:



:::{image} images/4831521627742089083.jpg

:::


Of course it would be best if you could just take that plug and plug
it into the PCB, but then you need to do something with good 20cm of
extra cable.

We brainstormed about this problem, among other things, during the
hackaday prize mentoring session with Kliment Yanev, and he came up
with an ingenious solution that just might work. Yes, you need to get
rid of the default plug, and the spurious cable, but then you are left
with the problem of either soldering the remaining cable directly to
the PCB, or attaching a different plug. Turns out there are plugs out
there that are very simple to attach, and quite popular and easy to
get. Kliment suggested I can use the plug that is commonly used for
the ribbon cables:



:::{image} images/4330411627742335917.jpg

:::


They have those blades in them, that bite into the cable when you
press the tab on top, and make a secure contact. Furthermore, we are
not increasing the price a lot, because you can use a single plug for
multiple servos. Sure, this makes them harder to replace, which is a
downside, but I think I can live with that.

Unfortunately, this also means we will need a PCB redesign — the way
this plug connects with the cables, we will need a completely
different pattern of pins for it. Oh, and we can't put the sockets for
those plugs in the same place on opposite sides of the pcb, not
easily, anyways, so I will need to think about where to best place
them. But I like the idea and I'm going to give it a try.

