---
blogpost: true
date: 2022-11-18
category: project-180025
---

# Can We Make It Simpler?
Published on 2022-11-18 in {ref}`project-180025`.

I'm pretty much happy with the physical design of this robot by now,
but I also like to tinker, so I asked myself if it could be simplified
any further? I noticed that 90% of the components on the PCB are
dedicated to keeping the LiPO battery happy – the protection circuit
and the charging circuit. What if we could use some other type of
battery that doesn't require as much babysitting? Alkaline batteries
are out, since one that could provide enough current for the servos
would be way too heavy, but what about NiMH batteries? They can
deliver higher currents than the alkalines, right?

Since I was ordering some PCBs anyways, I quickly made a modified
version of the fluffbug PCB that comes with a 3xAAA battery holder on
the back, and without all the protection and charging circuits –
external chargers for NiMH batteries are common enough. I also took
that opportunity to replace the S2 Mini footprint with a Raspberry Pi
Pico footprint – just to see how that would work, especially since
there is a version with WiFi now. I also ordered the batteries, and
when everything came, I started testing.



:::{image} images/8399351668798096916.jpg

:::


It quickly became obvious, that three AAA NiMH batteries are enough to
drive a single 9g servo, but not 8 such servos all at once. Even with
a beefy capacitor to smooth the spikes in current, there simply was
not enough power. So I replaced the battery holder with a 4xAAA one,
and tried again. This works, but the robot is now considerably heavier
than before, and can't move as fast. I consider the experiment to be
failed, we are better off with the LiPO and all the extra components.

As a side experiment, since the pi pico doesn't have the limit to only
8 PWM outputs, as the esp32-s2 does, I also got to test the speaker
with the fet on an actual WAV file with audiopwmio. I don't know if
it's the low-pass filter that I added, or the transistor itself, but
the results are disappointing – the audio is barely audible. If I keep
the speaker in the future, I will probably use a proper amplifier with
it.

I am still tempted to make a version of the PCB with the LiPO and the
pi pico, but to be honest I'm not sure it would actually bring
anything new right now.  I might do it to try the SMD versions of the
headers and the IDC sockets that I found, and that speaker amplifier,
but really I should be focusing on programming, so that the robot
actually does something more than just walking forward.

