---
blogpost: true
date: 2021-09-21
category: project-180025
---

# Special Legs
Published on 2021-09-21 in {ref}`project-180025`.

In the previous versions of this robot I experimented with the
mechanical leg segments made out of PCB, simply included in the
design, with mouse-bite holes so that you can break them off easily.
That made sense before there was easy and cheap access to laser-
cutting: after all, the PCBs are being cut with a CNC router anyways,
why not take advantage of it. Unfortunately today it makes less sense,
as PCB fabs usually want you to pay extra for multiple projects in one
design, and such a leg segment will count as a separate project for
them. Laser cutting parts make more sense and look better. And the
material can be less toxic.

On the other hand, the PCB legs had one big advantage: you could put
components on them. In particular, you could put switches at the ends
of the legs, to give the robot a primitive sense of touch. Then you
can program it to stop and turn around when it reaches the edge of
your desk. Of course you need switches with very light springs in
them, and relatively short travel â€” turns out that the switches that
are normally used to detect if an SD card is inserted are perfect for
this.

So I designed an alternate leg segment, made of PCB, with a switch
footprint at the end, and some traces going up to the knee. It won't
be included in the main body PCB of the robot, I will simply order it
as a separate order. It looks like this:



:::{image} images/7427661632255162817.png

:::


Of course this is completely optional, but I think it's a nice option
to have.

