---
blogpost: true
date: 2017-09-15
category: project-27257
---

# The Grid
Published on 2017-09-15 in {ref}`project-27257`.

The grid is a very useful tool. It lets you align all your parts
properly, and make sure the traces between them are straight. However,
the default grid in Fritzing is set to a huge 0.1" — which is probably
fine for large through-hole parts, but completely inadequate for the
smaller SMD components. Fortunately you can change the grid size using
the View → Set Grid Size... menu option:


:::{image} images/6369051505462167714.png

:::
I usually start with a pretty large grid, such as 0.05", and then
halve it whenever I need more detail or denser traces. This lets me
make sure that all the large parts are properly aligned to the bigger
grid, but the traces can still go around them.

You can also temporarily disable snapping to the grid with the menu
option View → Align to Grid, or by holding down the Ctrl key while
moving a trace. This can be useful for those few traces that don't
want to align no matter what you do, because the footprint you are
using is not compatible with the grid you have set.

Another trick is to hold down both Ctrl and Shift keys while moving a
trace — then it will automatically snap to horizontal, vertical or
diagonal positions. I use that to connect traces to the pins of small
integrated circuits, which somehow never align with my grid. So I make
the first segment of the track horizontal, until it crosses the grid,
and from there it all aligns properly again.

Some objects, like the PCB itself or images, will never snap to the
grid for some reason. To align them perfectly, you can use the
"location" and "rotation" properties. This is also the way to get a
rotation that is not a multiple of 45°.


:::{image} images/6762521505462661101.png

:::
