---
blogpost: true
date: 2017-09-17
category: project-27257
---

# Rotating Everything
Published on 2017-09-17 in {ref}`project-27257`.

Rotating elements is easy. You just use the "rotate" button in the
bottom left corner of the screen, right?


:::{image} images/720671505666678552.png

:::
Well, yes, you can do that and that works fine most of the time. But
there are limitations. By default, that button rotates things by 90°.
Some objects can be rotated by 45° by clicking on the small arrow on
that button, and selecting the appropriate option for the pop-up menu.
But some things, such as vias and holes, can't be rotated at all.
Initially that makes sense. After all, why would you want to rotate a
round hole or via — they look the same no matter how they are rotated!
However, you might still need to rotate a set of holes or vias, or a
mix of parts (like your whole design, for example) that includes holes
and vias in it. And Fritzing won't let you do that.

I had this problem with an Adafruit Feather shield that I was
designing — it's slightly longer than 5cm, but my board house would
only make 5×5cm boards cheaply, anything larger costs extra. But I
figured out that I can fit this shield into the 5×5cm outline if only
I rotate it by 45°. But how can I do that when it contains vias and
holes?

Looking for a way to do this, I found this "rotation" property in the
side pane:


:::{image} images/5683771505667163031.png

:::
This lets you rotate a single object by pretty much any angle, not
just multiplies of 45° or 90°. In particular, you can rotate your PCB
by any amount, even though that red button only lets you do 90° for
the PCBs. Neat! But I can't use that when I have multiple objects
selected, so it doesn't solve the problem.

I wish I could also figure out the next piece of the puzzle myself,
but I actually found it on the Fritzing's user forum. You see, the PCB
has one property that other objects don't have — the "sticky"
checkbox, right under that rotation property:


:::{image} images/3913921505667409946.png

:::
When an object is sticky, whenever you move it, it will also take with
it all other objects that touch it. And rotation counts as movement
here. So all I had to do is make my PCB sticky and set its rotation,
and everything on it rotated together with it. Presto!

Of course, sometimes you want to just rotate a few selected parts.
Then you can drag a second PCB onto your design, make it sticky, put
all the parts you need rotated on it, rotate it, and then delete the
PCB and move the parts back where you need them. A bit hacky, but
workable.

