---
blogpost: true
date: 2023-10-13
category: project-188909
---

# A Display
Published on 2023-10-13 in {ref}`project-188909`.

There are many different microcontroller boards that you can use with
Wee Bug, from the Seeedstudio Xaio, through Adafruit QtPy, to
Waveshare Zero boards. They all have the power pins in the same places
(sometimes mirrored), and the GPIO pins are flexible enough to be used
in the roles they need in the robot. But the Zero is particularly
interesting, because they have four additional pins at the bottom of
the board, that could be used by an additional board connected on top.
Like, for instance, a display. It so happens I was working on getting
one display to work, and I needed to make a breakout board for it, so
I thought why not, and made it a shield, or maybe a "face shield", for
the Wee Bug.



:::{image} images/7276981697229717812.jpg

:::


And since the other display I was recently playing with has the exact
same footprint, I made the breakout in a shape that fits both of them.
At a whim, I also added a footprint for the 1.8" ST7735 display on the
other side, just because I could.\


Of course the next step is to make it display something interesting. I
already experimented with eyes, and the closeup of a single monstrous
eye that Adafruit demos do is a bit too monstrous to my tastes, so for
now I went with the GIF animation I made for the {ref}`project-192761` . I plant to eventually re-draw the same character I used on the
silkscreen on earlier prototypes, and animate it to make it look like
it's controlling the robot from the inside, but of course that is much
more work than it seems, so it will take a while.



:::{image} images/9379991697229971691.jpg

:::


The practical advantage of having a display on a CircuitPython-
programmed robot is the fact that you no longer need to explain how to
connect to the USB console, so you can see error messages. People can
just read the errors from the screen.

