---
blogpost: true
date: 2023-08-19
category: project-188909
---

# New Body
Published on 2023-08-19 in {ref}`project-188909`.

I couldn't sleep last night, and when I can't sleep I design PCBs.
This time I decided to get back to this little cute robot and make a
new PCB for its body. The original one was kinda slapped together
without much deliberation, just to make it look like its bigger
brother {ref}`project-180025` but fit the small servo sockets. This time I decided to do it
properly.

First of all, I want some solution for the cable management. I can't
use IDC plugs like with Fluffbug, because the wires those little
servos use are so thin! But I also don't want to have to re-crimp the
plugs after cutting the wires to the right size. So I decided to
compromise by adding slots to the PCB under the servos, where you can
hide excess wires. Hopefully they are large enough to fit all of them.

Second thing is to give up on the Xiao board, and use a discrete
microcontroller chip right on the board. That lets me use all the
pins, makes the whole thing smaller, and, if you assemble it yourself,
also cheaper. It has the downside that you can't easily replace the
code by changing the modules. Oh well.



:::{image} images/7670971692401567284.png

:::


And finally, the most visible change is to add some visual bling. This
robot looks a little bit like a crab, and I could have leaned into it,
but while I personally think crabs are incredibly cute, many people
don't agree with me, especially the ones with some arachnophobia. So I
decided to make it look like a mech from an anime movie or game
instead, by adding a picture of a pilot on the front of the PCB.\




:::{image} images/4545951692401554121.png

:::


Last, but not least, I added an accelerometer chip in there, so that
we can have some sensors to react to. The board should arrive in a
week or so, and I will probably take some time assembling it. I will
keep you updated.

