---
blogpost: true
date: 2020-09-30
category: project-174982
---

# Assembled
Published on 2020-09-30 in {ref}`project-174982`.

A week has passed, and it's time to see the fruits of my design work
and assemble the prototype.



:::{image} images/9795781601498527185.jpg

:::


I started with the electronics, so that it will be easier to bodge
anything with switches not mounted. It's not complex, so there isn't
much work required. This time I re-used a chip with a bootloader
already flashed, so I didn't even need to muck about with connecting a
programmer (the programming pins are connected to some of the
switches, so it's not ideal). I spent an hour or so debugging a faulty
USB connector, but finally got it sorted out and it seems the whole
board works as supposed.

When I soldered the diodes, I put them in the opposite direction than
intended, but they are consistent, so I can fix that in software, no
problem. Just scan rows first instead of columns.

Then I soldered the switches with the key caps, and for the first time
I could actually try this layout:



:::{image} images/1631791601498803303.jpg

:::


It took me a short while to adapt the code I have used for the
previous keyboards, because I had to fill in the pins for rows and
columns, and account for the reversed diodes. I got it to work, but
somehow it felt really unreliable. So I sat down and started debugging
it, and in the process I figured out why those switches feel so bad,
and why both Flounder and this keyboard are unusable. I will write
about this in detail in the next log.

Other than the really bad switches, the layout is actually very nice.
I would prefer to make the horizontal spacing a little bit tighter —
right now in places it's a bit more than the traditional 0.75",
because the columns are angled at different angles. If I were redoing
it, I would bring them together a bit, so that sometimes the distance
is bigger and sometimes smaller (and not always bigger like now), so
the difference was smaller overall. But it's not a big deal.

I also assumed that the large shift keys are 2.75U like on normal
keyboards, but of course those Kailh keycaps are 2.5U, so there is a
little bit more gap for them, but it doesn't affect convenience.

I didn't make the stabilizers — at this point, with those switches,
that's pointless. The keyboard is unusable anyways, and I only sunk
more money into that project, instead of accepting that those switches
are trash and moving on.

