---
blogpost: true
date: 2020-10-16
category: project-174982
---

# Stab Stab Stab
Published on 2020-10-16 in {ref}`project-174982`.

Stabs, or what normal people call stabilizers, are special levers
added under any key longer than 1.5U to make sure that the key goes
down evenly no matter which part of it you are pressing. Many keyboard
designs avoid longer keys just to avoid dealing with stabs, but here
we don't really have much choice: Turbot has 4 keys that are 2U long,
and that is already long enough to warrant stabs.

In Flounder I tested several commercially available types of
stabilizers, but they were all either incompatible with low-profile
keys, or required space on the underside of the PCB â€” which doesn't
work when the PCB is supposed to lie flat on the desk. So I went ahead
and made my own stabilizers out of paperclips, using the holes in the
PCB to mount them.

This time I didn't make any holes for attaching the stabilizers and I
plan to do something else.

Commercial keyboards that use the Kailh choc switches have a very neat
solution for this problem:



:::{image} images/2998901602854753868.jpg

:::


The tops of the switches have a special groove to hold the lever.
Unfortunately, you can't easily buy switches like that, so I decided
to try and make my own. I started by using a bad PCB from another
project to make a drilling jig:



:::{image} images/8687651602854866117.jpg

:::


Using that jig I can drill holes in the case of the switch on both
sides, and then put a paperclip through it. Since I only have 2U keys
at most, I will not need those extra bits on the sides. I still need
something for the paperclip to hook onto, though, but that was already
a solved problem in Flounder:



:::{image} images/7843951602855055027.jpg

:::


Simply glue some pieces of wire to underside of the key caps, and
done.

