---
blogpost: true
date: 2018-08-26
category: project-160167
---

# Power and Connectors
Published on 2018-08-26 in {ref}`project-160167`.

Once I decided to use the CircuitPlayground Express board, everything
else clicked in place. The battery will need to be sandwiched between
the carrier board and the CPX, because the other side of the carrier
board is pretty much dominated by the barrette itself. That means I
need a relatively large battery that will fit in there. Something like
this:



:::{image} images/6478171535279563850.jpg

:::


There will be a second USB port on the carrier board for charging the
battery and for programming the addons (this way the addons can have a
less troublesome connector on them, that you will connect to the
carrier board for programming).

There will also be 8 sockets for connecting the individual addons for
wearing. Those sockets require some thought. On one hand, the plugs
need to be small and light, because they will be most likely attached
to almost invisible magnet wires, and we don't want that to break. On
the other hand, they need to be easy to connect and disconnect,
because you will be likely doing it while the barrette is at the back
of your head already. Finally, they need to be keyed, so that you
won't connect anything in reverse and burn it.

I was looking at various molex, jst, servo and other connectors, but
they are usually rather expensive, bulky or require large force to
connect. Finally, I decided to simply use 1.27mm female pin headers on
the barrette side (female, because they expose power, so you don't
want any shorts there), and male pin headers with heat-shrink tube as
plugs.



:::{image} images/2857281535280083772.jpg

:::


What about keying them? Well, as you can see, the assembly is
asymmetrical, so all I need is some physical obstacle on the side
where the cable is not supposed to go. Like a single male 2.54mm pin,
for example.

