---
blogpost: true
date: 2018-10-13
category: project-160167
---

# Not Dead Yet
Published on 2018-10-13 in {ref}`project-160167`.

There has been no update for a long time here, and that's because
there hasn't been much work. Why not? Because I was out of ideas. You
see, I really want this to look good — to not be a horrible mess of
tangled wires and electronic components, even though that is sometimes
nice too, if you are into that kind of aesthetics. But that is
surprisingly hard to do. And now, that the project has qualified to
semifinals of the Hackaday Prize, there is even more pressure to get
this right. I've been avoiding this project, focusing on my day job
and other projects, because it was simply stressful.

But now that there is a little over one week left for the deadline, I
remembered (again) that the secret to getting something right is not
in getting it right at the first try, but in trying a lot of times and
improving with every iteration. So yeah, the prototype doesn't have to
look good, even though I will make it with that goal in mind. I just
need to get back to trying out things.

So I went and finished the PCB design. Based on the feedback from the
non-smart barrette users, I went back to the same size and shape. I
also decided to make it as flat as possible, and use a standard shaped
LiPo battery after all (even though the round one arrived some time
ago) — that will make the build easier to reproduce. So here is the
carrier board:



:::{image} images/8957721539466659432.png

:::


There is a battery connector, power switch, charging electronics and
USB port (for charging and for interfacing with the {ref}`project-158701` ). Instead of eight connector, each with one signal pin, I switched to
four with two pins each — and they are arranged according to the Grove
connector standard from Seeedstudio. Using standards where possible
will make it more versatile in the future. Maybe I will even switch to
the JST connectors, then it will be fully Grove-compatible.

I left the holes for the CPX, but I will probably cover them by
soldering bolts onto them — so that the back is flat, because
otherwise they would interfere with the hair clasp, and possibly also
tangle into the hair.

