---
blogpost: true
date: 2020-05-05
category: project-158981
---

# Actual Work
Published on 2020-05-05 in {ref}`project-158981`.

So I spent the weeked mucking about designing PCBs and throwing new
features at them, but if I am supposed to ever finish this project, I
need to do some actual work on it. So today I tried to stay focused
and do the actual steps that need doing. First, a feather-compatible
robot would be great, but it's also complex. At first the only thing I
will need is I2C, so let's just make a minimal PCB with just that
broken out.



:::{image} images/1570701588706365870.png

:::


Second, all this is pointless if I can't control the servos. So I need
to make sure the pins I connected to servo signals actually can do PWM
all at once. The easiest way to do it is to just quickly compile a
custom CircuitPython firmware with those pins made available, and try
it on a Trinket M0. That's exactly what I did, and of course it didn't
work. I had to swap two of the eight pins to make them use different
timers, so that they can be used all at once. Of course that made the
layout a bit less pretty but that's fine.

Once I have figured out which pins will work, I also fixed the
feather-compatible schematic. That took considerably more work, since
I didn't have any free pins I could switch to, and there were certain
requirements for functions available on certain pins. In the end I
think I got it, though, so that PCB is fixed as well.

Finally, I need designs for the leg pieces for that small board.
Laser-cutting is considerably cheaper than PCBs, and now that I can
order it from Elecrow alongside the PCBs, it doesn't make it much more
complex. So I had to re-do the legs, but since I want to use the same
code, I wanted to keep the same dimensions. So some reverse-
engineering of the PCB designs was necessary:



:::{image} images/2667451588707036414.png

:::


Once I had all the dimensions and shapes figured out, I just had to
arrange all the parts on a 10x10cm sheet:



:::{image} images/6735411588707150902.png

:::


Now both versions of the robot PCB, the Fluff M0 board and the laser-
cut parts are on order — the work will continue in a few weeks when
they arrive, and in the mean time maybe I can focus long enough to
program the walking code.

