---
blogpost: true
date: 2021-08-19
category: project-175712
---

# MBK Legend Glow Keycaps
Published on 2021-08-19 in {ref}`project-175712`.

While I still wait for the group buy for the regular MBK Legend key
caps to finalize (they are now estimated somewhere around the end of
this year), I noticed that MBK Legend Glow became available â€” not as a
group buy, but as a product you can simply buy. So I went ahead and
bought them as soon as they appeared in any European shop. They just
arrived today.



:::{image} images/7983981629380645447.jpg

:::


Very nice box and all that, but what about the key caps? As all MBK
key caps, they are very nice, low-profile, with spherical profile for
your fingers. The homing keys have a bit of a straight edge on the
bottom, instead of a nub, but you can identify them by touch all the
same. This set is called "glow", because it's doule-shot keys, with
translucent legends, so that if your keyboard has backlight, you can
see the legends glowing. Kamina doesn't, but they are decent keys, so
I'm going to use them anyways.



:::{image} images/6639051629380857576.jpg

:::


Apart from the usual alphanumeric keys and a bunch of modifiers both
in text and symbol versions, you are also get individual digits (for a
number pad?) and a bunch of 1.5U and 2U keys. There is also a set of
alternate homing keys for weird layouts. A little bit of surprise was
the lack for caps for "+" and "-" keys (both regular and number pad),
as well as the "Ins" key. For now I replaced them with other random
keys.



:::{image} images/2988601629381056858.jpg

:::


I'm still getting used to the new shape, but they feel pretty good!

