---
blogpost: true
date: 2015-10-30
category: project-8282
---

# The Itch
Published on 2015-10-30 in {ref}`project-8282`.

After seeing a talk about keyboards on a conference, I decided to try
a different keyboard. While the keyboard itself was pretty bad -- one
of those mechanical ones, loud, with huge travel and keys getting
stuck if you don't hit them ideally vertically -- there was one thing
I actually liked about it, and that's the fact that it didn't have a
numeric keyboard. That lets you keep your mouse much closer and makes
your hand less strained. I decided I need a tenkeyless keyboard. On to
the Internet to look for one!

Several hours later I realized that nobody normal makes tenkeyless
keyboards. They are the domain of the crazy mechanical keyboard crowd,
possibly because that lets them save $100 on additional switches. It's
absolutely impossible to find a good, wired, scissor-key, tenkeyless
keyboard, no matter the price range. Sigh. That means I have to make
my own.

Unfortunately, scissor keys are hard to get (and even harder to make,
I suppose). So I will need some kind of the "mechanical" switches
(they are actually electrical switches, "mechanical" just sounds
cooler) that don't have such a large travel and don't get stuck. Maybe
like the ones I had in some of my older computers? Hmm, do I have some
old computer keyboards?

Turns out that I had one, that I saved from trash precisely for the
switches. I wanted to make a stenotypist keyboard with them (and use [Plover](http://plover.stenoknight.com/) ), but now that will have to wait. They keyboard is quite nice and
heavy, but a little bulky.


:::{image} images/5701791446218978514.jpg

:::



---
Some searching revealed it's [Chicony KB-5161](http://deskthority.net/wiki/Chicony_KB-5161)  with [Alps SKCM Blue](http://deskthority.net/wiki/Alps_SKCM_Blue)  switches. Whatever. Let's look inside.




:::{image} images/1293231446219192611.jpg

:::



:::{image} images/5418901446219139313.jpg

:::


What do you know, pretty nicely done keyboard. No idea what the switch
is for, but we are not going to use that part anyways. I think I will
use the switches, the keycaps and the nice, heavy metal plate they are
all attached to. After removing the keycaps we can see the switches:
:::{image} images/1034491446219341301.jpg

:::
It should be relatively easy to cut off the numeric keyboard part of
the plate, and then make a new chassis for the whole thing.\


