---
blogpost: true
date: 2016-03-02
category: project-9927
---

# What's on the PCB?
Published on 2016-03-02 in {ref}`project-9927`.

Time to talk a little bit about the new printed circuit board and what
will be there available on it. Let's take a look at the bottom of it
(note that this image is mirrored -- that is, it's as if the board was
transparent and you are looking from the top):


:::{image} images/8960851456908991188.png

:::


The two rows of pads in the middle are for the Arduino Pro Mini
module, with ATmega328p on it, running at 8Mhz. There are also some
additional pads for the I²C and analog-only pins.

The two rows of 3-pin headers running along the Pro Mini are servo
sockets. Since the servo plugs are relatively bulky, I had to put them
close to the center of the board, so that the moving legs don't
collide with them. This is pretty much the same as with regular Tote.

The 4×2 header below the Pro Mini is for an ESP-01 module. I decided
to give up on controlling this robot with a TV remote, and instead
will go for WiFi, mostly because that makes it easier to use it for
more advanced stuff. If you want, you can still connect IR sensor to
one of the free pins, and add the code for it, but by default the
control will be through the esp8266 chip.

Below that the 8×3 header breaks out all the free pins from the
Arduino, so that you can connect your own things to them. Each pin
also has a 3.3V power and ground pins next to it, because sensors are
likely to need that. The pins A6 and A7 are analog-only, and the pins
03 and 02 have interrupts. Also, pin 13 has a build-in LED on the Pro
Mini.

The 3-pin headers on both sides of the robots break out the I²C bus
and the serial interface for the ESP8266. The I²C bus is used for
internal communication and has pullup resistors to 3.3V, but you can
also connect your own hardware to that, as long as the addresses don't
clash. The serial is mostly for debugging purposes (it can't be used
for flashing the esp, because of the pullups on the I²C line). The I²C
line and power are also broken out on the 6-pin header in the lower
right corner.

In the upper right corner there is a battery plug, and a voltage
divider connected to the A7 analog pin. If populated, it can be used
to monitor the battery voltage -- but then of course you can't use A7
for your own sensors. The ESP8266 also has the possibility of
monitoring its own power voltage, so I will see how well that works,
and if it's better, I will leave that unpopulated.

The circle on the left side of the board is a place for a capacitor,
to protect against brownouts. Next to it are the two resistors acting
as I²C pullups.

And that's it. It's not very complex -- to be honest, the PCB is
mostly to just keep all the things together and act as the robot's
body.

