---
blogpost: true
date: 2018-08-02
category: project-158701
---

# Redesign
Published on 2018-08-02 in {ref}`project-158701`.

I have been showing off the prototype of this pendant in different
places, and during the poster session on EuroPython a person who I
can't now remember (sorry) suggested a really great solution to the
problems of small battery and large thickness of the device. It looks
something like this:



:::{image} images/3133821533228762662.jpg

:::


(The wire length is not to scale.)

Basically, they proposed to put the battery, together with the
charging electronics and power switch on a separate device, that would
be located on the neck or back, and that could be pretty much any
reasonable size. The power would be transmitted to the device through
a pair of soft wires that replace the string on which the pendant
hangs. The pendant itself then only needs the actual screen, the
microcontroller and the USB port for data transfer â€” all relatively
small elements, with the USB socket being the largest. This lets me
make it really thin, and since there are no mechanical parts, it can
be embedded in resin easily (USB port can be problematic, but I have
some ideas).

There are still some problems to be solved. How to prevent the heavy
battery from sliding down the back of the wearer and pulling the
pendant up? Maybe some kind of a clip for the collar? How prevent
electronics from irritating the sensitive skin on the back of the
neck? We will see how all that works.

That means that I won't be assembling the PCB that just arrived from
OSHPark. And good, because due to my laziness it misses the cutout for
the sunken USB socket:



:::{image} images/3637741533229116171.jpg

:::


But that also means that now I need to design two new PCBs. No rest
for the wicked.

