---
blogpost: true
date: 2018-01-07
category: project-27757
---

# Some Progress
Published on 2018-01-07 in {ref}`project-27757`.

The PCBs with the horizontal layout and display module arrived, so I
assembled the new version:



:::{image} images/1283961515359542650.jpg

:::


I'm happy with it mechanically. You don't touch the contacts when you
hold it, and the two buttons on the micro:bit are right under your
index fingers. It's wide enough to hold comfortably. The flattened
d-pad is a bit less convenient than it could be if it was full-size,
but I can't have everything. The coin battery fits inside the
sandwich, and the whole thing the right thickness. I had to add some
spacers to the bolts that hold the thing together, to make sure the
spacing is right. You can both use through-hole bolts, or solder them
to the pads — here I soldered them, but I think I will go with
through-hole in the future.

I'm still missing one crucial part — the attiny that will be handling
the buttons is still on the slow boat from China. Seems like the
holiday season was really tough on the post offices around the world,
because everything takes longer now. I guess I won't be able to get
this to work before the contest deadline.

On an unrelated note, I think I figured out why I couldn't get that
display to work reliably without a module. Turns out that after
powering it, it requires to be reset by the physical reset pin. The
datasheet's example schematics don't show it, but those modules have
an R-C circuit on the reset pin to do that. Mine didn't, hence the
problems. But I think I will stay with the modules for now anyways.

