---
blogpost: true
date: 2023-08-29
category: project-185291
---

# What Remains to be Done
Published on 2023-08-29 in {ref}`project-185291`.

I had a bit of a break on this project, caused both by my lack of
motivation, and by the chip shortage, meaning you couldn't get any
SAMD21 chips (or anything that could easily replace them) anywhere.
The shortage is apparently ending this September, and I have also
recovered some strength, so I can think about the project again.

The time that passed wasn't entirely wasted. I got to test the device
in different conditions, with different computers, different programs
and different batteries, and I have discovered at least two serious
problems that require my attention, and that could lead to an increase
of the price of the device.

The first problem wasn't immediately apparent with the simple games I
tested the device with, mostly because they check for button presses
pretty often. But not all programs written for PewPew devices do that,
and the less frequently they check for the presses, the worse the
touch buttons on the device work. You see, originally the pew library
would use the same interrupt it used to refresh the LED matrix to also
check for button presses, so the checks were very frequent and were
happening in the background. When it was ported to other devices, it
used the keypad library to also keep checking the presses in the
background at a high rate, and processed the resulting events when the
game asked button presses. But there is currently no keypad library
for touch pads in CircuitPython, or any other way of checking for
touch in the background. So the pew library for this device only
checks the pads for touches when the game asks it. And that means that
if the game doesn't ask often enough, some touches will be missed. And
that results in an unreliable and laggy feel of the games on this
device. It simply is not pleasant to use it. We can't allow that.

I can think of two ways of solving this problem. The first is to fix
it in software and write a library similar to keypad, but for touch.
This requires some datasheet diving to be done right, without slowing
the code running in the foreground on the device. I'm not entirely
sure I can do it, but I will try. I can think of two ways of doing it,
the harder, with interrupts, and the easier, with the system tick. If
I don't manage to write such a library, the only other solution I can
think of is to add back physical buttons to the device. It would
increase the price, yes, but it would also immediately solve the
problem, as I could then again use the keypad library, and it would
provide the users with tactile feedback, further increasing the
pleasure from using the device. Plus, buttons are really not that
expensive, even the nice ones.

The second problem has to do with batteries. You see, the kind of coin
batteries that this device uses are not the same all over the world.
When I designed the prototype, I tested it with batteries I bought in
Switzerland, and they had no problem driving the display and the
microcontroller. However, when I went to a conference to UK, and
bought some batteries there, they proved to be too weak to even start
the device. I can only assume that regulations in different countries
require different power from the same type of the battery, and
naturally batteries destined to different markets differ in quality.

Again, there are several ways I could solve this problem. I could
switch back to two AAA cells, instead of a coin battery. I could
require a thicker (and more expensive) variant of the coin battery I'm
using, or even a bigger (and harder to obtain) one. I could remove the
battery slot entirely and say that the device should be connected to
USB for use â€“ after all, that's how it would be used during the
workshop, which is the main target for it. But a simple boost
converter circuit would work too, and it would also make it run on the
same battery longer, draining it more completely before failure.
What's more important, it would feed the device a consistent voltage
as long as the battery had enough juice left in it. And there are
ready boost converter chips out there for really cheap. It would add
to the cost of the device a little, and complicate it a bit more, but
I think the increased reliability and use of the battery is well worth
it.

So I need to redesign the prototype to add a boost converter circuit
to it, complete with a small inductor and a controller chip, and some
beefy filtering capacitors. I have already tested a similar circuit in
another project, and it works very well, so I'm optimistic about this.

There is a third problem, but it has more to do with logistics than
with the hardware. I don't want to be selling those devices myself.
Sure, I can order a batch for a workshop or two, but I don't want to
have to run to the post office to fulfill orders. But I want other
people to also be able to run workshops with them. That means that I
need to make them as easy to order as possible, and that's done easily
by re-doing the design in EasyEDA instead of Fritzing. With that,
people can simply open the designs without having to install anything
on their computers, change the silkscreen according to their needs,
and order the device assembled with a few clicks. Well, mostly
assembled, they would still need to buy and solder the displays.

Unless, of course, I switched to some kind of displays that are
available from LCSC, like the small OLED screens I used in the {ref}`project-180309` . Come to think of it... hmmm...

Anyways, I have some work and some decisions before me.

