---
blogpost: true
date: 2023-09-01
category: project-185291
---

# Never Be Clever for the Sake of Being Clever
Published on 2023-09-01 in {ref}`project-185291`.

A bunch of sleepless nights, and I have designed a version of PewPew
with that ST7735 display from LCSC in EasyEDA, to see how that single-
click assembly thing would work for it. I was very careful to use the
parts from the basic parts list as much as possible, so as to not
incur extra costs for loading new parts into the PnP machines. It
looks like this:



:::{image} images/6883751693591818494.png

:::


Of course all the parts are on the back, including the long row of
parts that is the power supply, including the LDO regulator for
handling the USB 5V, and a boost converter for the battery.
Unfortunately I didn't take a screenshot of the finished board from
the back, so here it is without the boost circuit.



:::{image} images/6033781693592930573.png

:::


There is also plenty of space for documenting the pins and adding
whatever PCB art I decide on, but for a prototype that is enough. So I
clicked the magical one-click button, did all the additional clicks to
generate the BOM and PNP files that for some reason the one-click
button doesn't handle, and was presented for a quote for assembling 5
units: a little bit over $50. And that is without the SAMD21, which
happens to have a "shortfall", and without the display, that doesn't
even appear in the parts search, despite the fact that you can find it
on LCSC without problems. Add to this the shipping costs and the
missing parts (which happen to be the two most expensive ones), and
you can easily expect $20 a piece. That's not what I expected, so I
looked closely at the breakdown of fees, and turns out I'd have to pay
extra $25 "setup fee" for the fact that the PCB is 0.6mm thick instead
of the regular 1.6mm thickness. It would also have to be green,
because all other colors in that thickness are ridiculously expensive.\


In hindsight, this isn't surprising. If they have to change the
settings of the whole production line just to churn out those 5
boards, it's going to take time and work from their engineers. The
good thing is that it's a one-time fee, so it would have much less of
an impact on the final price if I ordered, say, 100 units. But I want
people to be able to order just a dozen units for a workshop, so this
is definitely sub-optimal.

What can I do? What if I stopped trying to be clever with the battery
holder and the USB socket, and used regular parts like everyone else,
and regular thickness of the PCB? Those parts cost literal cents,
after all. Let's see:



:::{image} images/8454121693592462152.png

:::


I also simplified the board outline, while I was at it, in the vain
hope that it would make the previews on the JLCPCB website work, but
it didn't. I guess their engineers are busy with other things. In any
case, this time it was just around $30 for 5 units, which sounds much
more reasonable, until you remember that the boards are missing the
two most expensive and hardest to solder parts, the MCU and the
display. And this time the largest fee is the "extra components" fee,
for using parts that aren't the basic parts list. Because while the
USB socket and battery holder indeed only cost cents, they are not
"basic parts", so you pay an additional fee (much higher than the
price of the part) just for loading them into the PnP. I feel like I
can't win this.

So the plan right now is to focus on the other problem I have
identified in the previous log, maybe get a new revision of the nokia
display prototype into EasyEDA if I can't sleep again, and try to see
if some fab would be interested to carry those boards in their shop.
Because the only way to get them cheap is to make a lot of them at
once. But that will have to wait until the SAMD21 is back in stock.

