---
blogpost: true
date: 2022-05-10
category: project-185291
---

# First Hardware
Published on 2022-05-10 in {ref}`project-185291`.

In the mean time, the PCBs that I designed for this arrived from [@JLCPCB ](https://hackaday.io/hacker/1249450) and I could assemble the first prototype. I can only give you one
advice here: don't design PCBs while sick and with fever. Everything
went wrong.



:::{image} images/1107581648159872299.jpg

:::


The display footprint had to be custom of course, and I designed it
the same way it was done on the breakout I tested with – assuming the
flex connector will be folded under the display and soldered there.
Well, turns out the really cheap displays I got are a bit cheaper than
the one on the breakout, and the flex connector only has metal contact
on one side. The wrong side, of course. So I will need to redesign it
to move the contacts outside of the display outline.

Fine, so I will need to make a second version for the display
connector, but what about the rest of the device? Well, the rest
wasn't very good either. I simply couldn't get the chip to program.
After several hours of struggles, and some smoke coming out of the
voltage regulator, I finally realized that I had the USB connector
mirrored. It probably happened when I moved it to the other side of
the board. Sadly, I burned one of the SAMD21 chips I had, and that's
painful considering we have chip shortage and the next opportunity to
buy more will be in a year from now.

At least the physical shape of the PCB is good. The battery connector
works great, the expansion header retains a male pin header inserted
into it just fine, the touch pads are in the right places and the USB
socket fits the plug.

