---
blogpost: true
date: 2022-10-16
category: project-185291
---

# The Challenge
Published on 2022-10-16 in {ref}`project-185291`.

This project was submitted to the 2022 Hackaday Prize, and it
qualified to semifinals, so let me take some time and talk about the
challenge that I am trying to tackle with it.

Of course, the theme of the round was re-using existing parts, so that
they serve a purpose instead of ending up in a landfill, and that is
of course an important thing. In case of this project, the part being
reused is the display, which used to be produced for a number of very
popular phones, and which is still available as replacement part for
them, even though those phones are not nearly as popular as they used
to be. It's a dated technology, which has long been replaced with OLED
screens, but which still has some indisputable advantages, such as
very low power consumption, and is more than adequate for this
particular use case. So yes, we are re-using a part that would
otherwise just pollute our world. Good. I also made some other
conscious decisions about what to use, such as settling on a battery
type that is practically, in reality, recycled, or a USB connector
that works with older hardware.

But the main goal of this project is not related to protecting the
environment, a worthy goal that it is, but rather it looks forward
into the future a little bit further, to give a better chance of
saving the world to those who come after us. Technical culture is a
big thing. You either understand the tools that you use and control
them, or they control you. With the tools around us getting more
powerful and ubiquitous, and with them having increasing effect on our
everyday lives, it's more important than ever to understand and
control them. But it is also becoming increasingly harder to do that,
as they become more complex, harder to inspect and repair, and more
dependent on centralized services. If our successors are going to
learn this, they need a stepping stone, something that is easier to
understand and learn from, something they can own and control. I hope
this project to be that. Or one of such things, anyways, for I hope
there will be many more. 

Obviously they also need teachers and the materials to learn from, but
while I do some teaching myself, I'm not an organizer and there is
little I can do about encouraging people to teach and write books.
What I can do is to give them tools that will make the teaching easier
and less challenging. I can design a device that is not only useful in
the teaching, but also not tied to any large corporation or
government, and not dependent on their sponsorship, like the Raspberry
Pi or Micro:bit projects are. Something that is cheap and easy to get
because it was designed to be cheap and easy to source, not because
someone poured a ton of money into it to subsidize it, and can at any
moment change their mind. Something that is truly open source, without
any binary blobs or secret sauce, without a trademark or a patent,
without strings attached.

It's not ideal. While the screen is recycled and the battery is
recyclable, the microcontroller itself is new, and affected by the
global chip shortage at the moment. Using any other chip would make
this project more complex and more expensive, and possibly also tie it
to one of the organizations that could control it. It was a trade-off.
Perhaps in the future there will be a chip that better fits the goals
of this project – one that is more open, or that can be recycled from
old hardware, while not adding a lot of complexity. But I currently
don't see anything like this, and I believe that it's better to make
something imperfect now, than to wait for perfection forever. We are
not getting any younger.

I also hope that in the future there will be many more PewPew-
compatible devices. The pew library is already ported to pretty much
any homebrew console that runs CircuitPython, and some platforms that
run regular Python. As new devices are designed, PewPew can be ported
to them as well. So maybe you will not need to produce new devices for
a workshop anymore, because everyone will already have something that
can be made to run the pew library in their drawer already. Sure, it
might require more work, but that's learning too, and there are
hackerspaces and repair cafes to help with that. So there is actually
much more opportunity for reuse and bringing old things back to life,
in the future. Things like smartwatches and sportbands, alarm clocks
and fancy remotes, pocket translators and music players could all
potentially become pewpew-compatible, with the help of the community.

