---
blogpost: true
date: 2024-06-23
category: project-185291
---

# Practicality Beats Purity
Published on 2024-06-23 in {ref}`project-185291`.

It's been a while since the last update in this project, but that
doesn't mean nothing was happening. In fact, the whole project got a
complete overhaul, as I reevaluated the goals and the methods of
reaching them.

I went back all the way to the {ref}`project-165032` design, including standard thickness PCB, a micro-USB socket that is
not made out of the PCB, and a plastic battery holder for two AAA
batteries. And physical buttons. I also changed the display to a
ST7735, 180x128, 1.8" color TFT.

Why such sudden changes? Well, the short answer is: because I need a
reliable, working, non-experimental device that can be easily produced
at scale for workshops right now. The long answer requires me to fill
in some details.

First of all, all the cool features like the USB port and battery
holder made of PCB itself require a thin 0.6mm PCB. Which is usually
more expensive, not available in colors, or not available for assembly
with PNP machines. Or all three. So I dropped all that in order to be
able to use the cheapest assembly options out there.

Second, while the Nokia display is very reasonably priced at 1$, and
it gives us all a warm feeling reusing old parts that would rot in the
warehouse somewhere otherwise, it's problematic, because you can't
have to buy it separately and solder onto all the consoles yourself.
And no, you can't use a connector, because you can't buy matching
connectors. On the other hand, ST7735 displays go for $2, are bigger,
have better contrast, better support in software and will be around
for a while yet. And surprise surprise, they also come from old
(though slightly more recent) Nokia phones.

Third, and this is entirely my fault, I can't get the touch buttons
working reliably. The problem is that I'm only checking them when the
keys are checked in the game loop. And at 12 or even 6 FPS, that is
not often enough. So they feel unreliable and laggy. I would need to
write a version of the keypad library for CircuitPython that checks
them in the background (or uses interrupts), and I made an attempt at
this, but I'm blocked by the proprietary qtouch library that the
SAMD21 uses. So I accepted the additional cost and went back to
physical buttons. I found tact switches that are clicky but have low
actuation power, and they feel great.

I'm now in the process of assembling 50 units for a workshop I will be
running in two weeks. Wish me luck.



:::{image} images/6344511719177304495.jpg

:::


