---
blogpost: true
date: 2022-05-13
category: project-185291
---

# Dithering About
Published on 2022-05-13 in {ref}`project-185291`.

It's time to look a little bit closer at the software. The display has
resolution of 96x68, and I need to display a grid of 8x8 pixels in
four shades on it. A quick calculation tells me I can have blocks of
12x8.5 pixels. Of course that's wrong, because I can use half of a
pixel, and that block would be very much not square. But I don't have
to use the whole screen. With 8x8 blocks, I use 64x64 area in the
middle — the blocks are square, but the empty area on the sides looks
bad. By experimenting I settled on 10x8 blocks — this is stretched
enough to only leave 8 unused pixels on each side, but not as bad as
to make the blocks visibly flat.



:::{image} images/1225991652432995347.jpg

:::


Next, I needed to figure out the best patterns for dithering those
blocks. Of course the 100% and the 0% ones are easy, the ones in the
middle though require some thought. Theoretically, they should be
around 33% and 66% to give an uniform distribution, [but there is no good way of arranging the pixels in the block without
creating obvious patterns like that.](https://mastodon.technology/@deshipu/108176511938133147)  Even if we make it 9x8 instead of 10x8, to be divisible by 3.

So as you can see in the image above, I initially went with 25% and
75% dithering. They are pretty uniform, and one is just a negative of
the other, so the look is very consistent. However, I still wasn't
happy with how the dark grey looked almost like black. So finally I
settled on 25% and 50%, to make the blocks easier to tell apart:



:::{image} images/529681652433531759.jpg

:::


I'm pretty happy with how that turned out.

By the way, it was suggested I could try PWM-ing the pixels, to get my
shades of grey without dithering, but since this is an SPI display, I
don't really control every frame of the image, and keeping consistent
timing would have been hard. It would also require constant updating,
taking away microcontroller time from the user's program, and making
it slower.

