---
blogpost: true
date: 2022-05-17
category: project-185291
---

# Why not Recycle Everything?
Published on 2022-05-17 in {ref}`project-185291`.

With both the screen and the battery being chosen with their impact on
environment in mind, you are probably wondering what about the
remaining components, especially the microcontroller?

The quick answer to that is that the chip shortage has cleared any old
micrcontrollers from the warehouses quite well already, so there isn't
really much surplus we could draw on here.

The more detailed answer is that the main and overriding goal of this
project is to remove as many obstacles between you and the game you
are going to write, as possible, and the older microcontrollers simply
don't have the resources, in terms of memory and speed, to run a
Python interpreter. They often don't even have native USB peripheral
on them, which means you would have to muck about installing
toolchains, compiling your programs, and using special dongles and
programs to flash them onto the device. This is simply unacceptable.

As for the other components, they are really generic, and you could
easily use recycled ones if you are building this by hand. But for
producing hundreds of the devices, the additional effort in hand-
placing them and doing quality checks to make sure they work, with
added risk that they might stop working at any time anyways, is simply
not worth it.

So we will have this mixture of old and new technology â€” ancient
screen with a advanced microcontroller, traditional battery with a
modern voltage regulator, generic switch with new capacitors.

Oh, and I also looked into using paper PCBs, but it seems the
technology is not quite there yet.

