---
blogpost: true
date: 2022-05-10
category: project-185291
---

# Environmental Cost of Displays
Published on 2022-05-10 in {ref}`project-185291`.

While reusing old displays wasn't initially the goal of this project,
the goal of making it affordable lead straight in that direction, and
then the Hackaday Prize came along with this category, so I thought
why not submit it.

But while no lone hacker is going to save the planet with our toys, we
can at least help somewhat by raising the awareness of the
environmental effects of the technology we are using. So I went and
tried to do some research about how bad the displays actually are for
the environment.

On the surface of it, the impact seems negligible. It's mostly glass,
silicon, some mild chemicals for the liquid crystals, some metals for
the contacts, plastic for the case. But it turns out that most thin
displays, whether they are LCDs, OLED, plasma, TFT, IPS or e-ink,
share one thing with thin-film photovoltaic cells that makes them
horrible for the planet: transparent electrodes. Of course you need
transparent electrodes to bring electricity to all those pixels, if
you want to also be able to see the pixels. Such electrodes are
usually made of silicon, just like in chips, and to get the right
shapes, they are etched in similar way that you etch copper on the
PCBs. Except the best chemical for etching silicon is nitrogen
trifluoride.

What is nitrogen trifluoride? It seems pretty harmless. It's
colorless, non-flammable gas with pretty low toxicity. Easy to handle,
pretty safe. However, it's an extremely potent greenhouse gas. How
potent?Â 17200 times more potent than carbon dioxide. That's 17
thousands. Oof! It stays in the atmosphere for an estimated 740 years.
And its concentration in the air is growing steadily at about 11%
increase per year, as of 2011.

So yeah, let's see if we can reuse those displays we already have, and
maybe rethink those solar panels a bit too.

