---
blogpost: true
date: 2017-03-17
category: project-20379
---

# Paperclips
Published on 2017-03-17 in {ref}`project-20379`.

The first approach wasn't very successful:


:::{image} images/3173451489769094885.jpg

:::


The joints would lock up and get into exactly the wrong positions. So
I decide to try a little less gangsta approach and actually order some
of those push rods for RC models -- ones that already have ball joint
"snaps" on them. I made the order and forgot about the whole thing.

Today, they arrived, and I decided to continue the project. Initially
I planned to make all the remaining levers out of paper clips, or to
go posh and go to the nearby fablab and lasercut the parts. Then I
looked at a stack of prototype PCBs for {ref}`project-6050`  that I will never use (it's an older prototype) and noticed that they
already have the holes for mounting the servo horns, so if I only cut
them up a little...


:::{image} images/9868441489769331983.jpg

:::


This appears to be working quite well. I had to enlarge the screw
holes a little, but otherwise they seem just perfect. Next, I had to
make the center hub somehow. I decided to use the leftover pieces of
the PCBs I have just cut up, and simply solder them together. Then, I
realized I will probably want to have a hole in the middle, to install
a pen or something, so instead of soldering them together directly I
used some paperclips.


:::{image} images/8875631489769479331.jpg

:::


Then I just bolted the remaining PCBs together to create the base, and
used two-sided tape to attach the servos to that. The resulting
construction looks quite pleasing to the eye, in my opinion, and is
reasonably rigid. Of course it's not perfect: both the ball joints and
the servos have some play in them, which translates to the center hub
being a bit wobbly -- so I probably won't have millimeter precision on
this. But my main interest is in working out the inverse kinematics of
this thing, so this is good enough.

