---
blogpost: true
date: 2022-08-28
category: project-182342
---

# The Big Cap Conspiracy
Published on 2022-08-28 in {ref}`project-182342`.

I still didn't get any useful results with this shield. I put it away
for a while, but recently the camera support for CircuitPython was
rewritten, so I though I will try again. All I managed to get is some
damaged JPEG frames:



:::{image} images/6166091661637448706.jpg

:::


But that suggests, that indeed both the hardware and software do work
and all the connections are correct, there is just a problem with
reliability. So maybe some of those capacitors, resistors and
inductors that are on those example schematics, that I completely
ignored while designing my shield are actually necessary?



:::{image} images/9844311661637652787.png

:::


You can see there are quite a lot of them, and I reduced it all to
just two, because I didn't want to feed the Big Capacitor consortium
that puts all those unnecessary capacitors on the schematics. Well,
easy enough to test, what if I put back some additional caps and see
if that affects the reliability?



:::{image} images/9354201661637775325.jpg

:::


By the way, someone should really start to produce parts that contain
several capacitors in parallel inside them, so that you don't have to
do things like this. Anyways, I added two 220nF caps to those 1ÂµF caps
I already had there, to see if it would change anything. And yes, it
does! Now my code crashes into a hard fault handler instead of
outputting corrupted JPEGs unreliably. Which seems like a worse
outcome, but the important part is that there indeed was a change, so
the filtering actually has an observable effect.

So the next step is to redesign this camera shield with the full
complement of capacitors and other filtering paraphernalia, and see if
that works. If it does, *then* I can see if some of them can be
removed.

