---
blogpost: true
date: 2022-12-13
category: project-182342
---

# Pure Frustration
Published on 2022-12-13 in {ref}`project-182342`.

 I dug out this project recently, trying to see if I can get it
working with the new esp32_camera module in CircuitPython. I managed
to get the board to either just crash and hang, or crash into safe
mode, but not to capture any images. Then I went looking at the source
code, and noticed a mention that it uses edma mode when the master
clock is set to 16MHz. So I changed it from the default of 20MHz, and
lo and behold, I got some data coming in both the GREYSCALE and and
RGB565 modes. The JPEG mode is still returning no frames, though,
though it no longer crashes.

So I thought: maybe I have the data pins in wrong order somehow, and
that is why the JPEG mode doesn't work – because there is a certain
header expected by the code, and if the pins are in the wrong order,
it never gets the right data. But how do I verify that? Maybe I could
at least display the data I'm getting in the RGB565 mode to see if
it's correct, and then if it's not, I would at least know the problem
lies there and I could try changing the pin order or something.

So I connected the display to the board with the camera shield, and
added all the code that initializes it, and... nothing. White screen.



:::{image} images/6695411670969678458.jpg

:::


Which is very strange, because this is CircuitPython, and so after the
code finishes running it should display the REPL, not a white screen.
So I started commenting out pieces of code, and it turns out I get
white screen as soon as I create the camera object... And then it
won't go away until a hard reset. Just great.

In the mean time I realized that even if I get this shield working, it
will not work with the {ref}`project-180025` robot, which was the main reason I was working on it in the first
place. Why not? Because the esp32-s2 can only do up to 8 PWM channels,
and I'm already using all of them for controlling the servos of the
robot. And the camera driver uses at least one PWM channel to generate
the master clock.

So now I'm thinking about giving up on the esp32-s2 all together, and
using the imagecapture library with rp2040 instead. I will be doing
some further experiments to see if that works any better. At least it
doesn't have to deal with the horrible Espressif code.

