---
blogpost: true
date: 2019-10-06
category: project-167912
---

# Layout and Key Caps
Published on 2019-10-06 in {ref}`project-167912`.

When considering the keyboard layout, one has to think about what
keycaps are available on the market. Those low-profile switches use
non-standard keycaps, so I'm a bit limited. A quick search of
Aliexpress reveled that I have a huge choice of 1u caps, but as soon
as I need any special keys, I'm limited to those ugly yellow flat
caps, and even then I only have 1u, 1.5u, 2u and a spacebar of
unspecified size:



:::{image} images/8862511570354988347.png

:::


This is a bit of a problem, because I wanted a relatively classic
layout for this (having a more exotic split-keyboard layout project
running already at {ref}`project-167897` ). So I kept looking, and I found this:



:::{image} images/6260681570355230454.png

:::


It's a full 104-key cap set, with labels and everything, and at a
reasonable price, so what not to like? Unfortunately if you look a bit
closer, you will notice some strange things about this keyboard.

In particular, the "QWERTY" row of the keys. See anything weird?

Well, if you look at a standard keyboard, you will notice that this
row is shifted from the previous row by 1/4 of the key width. Here it
is shifted by 1/2. I initially thought that they did it because they
didn't have 1.25u keys, but if you look closely, you will see that
both Ctrl keys are 1.25u, so no. So why? It's a mystery. They also
switched the ; and ' keys, by the way...

In any case, I don't want a *full* 104 layout, so I have some wiggle
room here swapping keys around. Let's see if I can get something
classical-looking but compact with those caps:



:::{image} images/2809111570355653335.png

:::


I dropped the numpad and the function keys row, since I've got used to
a tenkeyless keyboard anyways, and the function keys are easily enough
done with a function key. The arrow keys got squished into that
humongous shift key, and the escape key bumped tilde over the tab to
sit next to caps lock. The backslash will be replaced with a 1u key,
to make room for shifting that row to its proper position.
Unfortunately that creates some gaps, but I think I can live with
that.

