---
blogpost: true
date: 2019-12-08
category: project-19921
---

# Batteries! Why Doesn't Anybody Think About the Batteries?
Published on 2019-12-08 in {ref}`project-19921`.

Today I decided that the new PCB design was lying on the disk long
enough, and that it's time to order it. But then, when I opened it in
Fritzing, I decided to work on it a little bit more and add an
important feature: battery protection.

You see, the batteries that Adafruit sells already come with the
protection circuit, so the battery handling circuit on the feathers
doesn't include it, but those batteries are too small for all those
servos (and also kinda difficult to attach properly), so I'm instead
using a bare 16340 battery (it's half of a 18650, if you were
wondering). But that means no protection, and that means you can
damage your batteries if you are forgetful. On the previous models I
had software monitoring of the battery status, but that's not as
reliable.

So I decided to go on and add a battery protection chip. Looking
through my drawers, I found a HT3062E, which, judging by the Chinese
datasheet, should allow up to 8A of current — that should be plenty
for those tiny little servos. It comes in an ESPO8 package, so it was
easy enough to add it to the PCB design:



:::{image} images/9019751575830955635.png

:::


I had to remove the prototyping area at the front of the robot to make
room for it (it had to be close to the minus side of the battery), but
most Feathers have a prototyping area of their own on that side, so
that shouldn't be too much of a problem.

I also made the pin header holes for the Feather staggered, so you
should be able to save some height of the robot by plugging the board
directly, without the need for female pin headers.

I ordered the boards from DirtyPCBs, because they are the only ones
who don't care how many "designs" there are on a single PCB (most fabs
will treat all the leg parts as separate designs and demand additional
fees for them, for some reason).

