---
blogpost: true
date: 2024-07-03
category: project-191383
---

# The Legs
Published on 2024-07-03 in {ref}`project-191383`.

It took a while (because I picked the cheap and slow option), but the
leg parts finally arrived.



:::{image} images/6053351720028992851.jpg

:::


They look great: 3mm thick anodized aluminium. Very solid and pretty
light too. So I assembled the robot with the PCB body first, just to
see how it all looks like:



:::{image} images/1759941720029078902.jpg

:::


Turns out that those servos are really beefy. In fact, they are so
strong and fast, that my lazy code, which tells them too move from one
end to the other when making a step, makes them draw so much current
that the 8/15A regulator shuts down. This is more of a software
problem, though, than hardware — the power is perfectly adequate when
the servos are moving more gradually and don't make sudden movements
all at once. There is also a problem that I already noticed in the
first version of Big Bug, that is even more pronounced now with the
longer legs — the robot is tilted to one side for some reason. I
initially thought that it's because the servos have asymmetric
response to the PWM signal, moving faster in one direction than in the
other, but then the difference would be between diagonal legs, and
it's clearly a left/right asymmetry. I will need to investigate that
closer.

With the initial tests done, I proceeded to move the robot to its
proper aluminium body.



:::{image} images/7773551720029405627.jpg

:::


I used one more spare PCB from the PCB body, but I cut off the
mechanical part to which the servos were attached, so that it will fit
inside the case better. I also experimented with several different
buck converters, but in the end settled on the 8/16A one that I used
initially. I ordered a few more to try later, too, so I might still
change it.

The total weight of the whole robot is just shy of 1kg, which is not
too bad. I might actually make it even less by replacing the case lids
with PCBs (I don't feel like drilling all the holes for the power
switch and USB in the original lids), and using a smaller battery.

I drilled the holes on the sides for the servo cables, added some
plastic cable management thingies, wrapped some rubber strings on the
feet, and closed the lid:



:::{image} images/8654621720029703398.jpg

:::


Now all that is remaining is, as always, programming. And waiting for
the additional parts.

