---
blogpost: true
date: 2024-06-20
category: project-191383
---

# Version Two
Published on 2024-06-20 in {ref}`project-191383`.

The robot was built to see if it would work, and I have to say that it
worked pretty well so far. However, after taking it to several
different events, I now have some ideas about how to improve it for
such events specifically.

The main problem I have is that the robot is really to slow to walk
around with it. As such, it's mostly spending its time on the time,
waiting to be switched on for a few steps to show to the passing
people, and switched off before it falls off the table. Its size is
also a bit awkward. It's too big to really do anything useful on the
table, but too small to be safe from being trampled on the floor.

So now I want to build a second version, using faster servos and
longer legs. That should solve both the problems. I also want to try
and make the body look less like a bunch of duct-taped garbage, but
that's a secondary consideration.

I already have the servos for the second version. I went with the JX
PDI-6208MG, mostly because they are roughly the same size as the MG995
I used in the first version, but should be about twice as fast. I also
got some aluminium cases to see if I can use them as the body. One
such case seems to be particularly suitable, so I went ahead and cut
some holes in it to mount the servos:



:::{image} images/970631718834962094.JPG

:::


Cutting thick aluminium with a dremel turned out to be harder than I
anticipated, but with some struggle, I got all four holes for the
servo, and the accompanying mounting holes done, and then painted the
enclosure with black spray paint to make all the scratches less
obvious.



:::{image} images/4597261718835314447.JPG

:::


As for the legs, I was planning to cut them from 3mm sheet aluminium
again, but then I realized that some of the usual PCB fabs also let
you order CNC cut parts. Initially I tried three of them, but with the
pricing they showed, I started preparing the hacksaw.



:::{image} images/1935491718835442162.JPG

:::


But then I thought about the fact that they also do bead-blasting and
anodizing of the parts. I imagined nice red anodized aluminium legs,
and I went to try some more fabs. One of the offered to make the parts
for 1/3 of the price of the others, and that is acceptable for me for
a one-off project, so I ended up ordering the parts anyways.

They wanted step files, so I took this opportunity to learn to use
FreeCAD a little bit...



:::{image} images/704231718835566061.png

:::


I know, I know, this is horrible. But it's the step file that counts
in the end. With the leg parts ordered and scheduled to arrive in some
two weeks, I got to work on the electronics.

I don't need anything too fancy here. I wanted to use the pi pico, to
have enough extra pins for things like speakers, blinking LEDs, extra
moving parts and so on. I considered using a 3S lipo battery pack, but
it's considerably heavier than the 2 18650 batteries I used
previously, so I kept those. I looked at the buck converter chips
available, but I didn't find anything that would be much better than
just using a ready buck module, so I just left holes to connect that.
The rest is simple: power switch, servo sockets, and a shottky diode
for the pi pico VSYS (I might replace it with a different diode with a
larger voltage drop, to raise the voltage for the servos).



:::{image} images/4118001718836070859.png

:::


Just in case, I made the PCB shaped just like the body of the robot in {ref}`project-188909` and {ref}`project-180025` , so that if the aluminium case proves to be too heavy or otherwise
problematic, I can revert to the taped garbage looks. I moved the
batteries to both sides of the PCB to make the weight more evenly
distributed, and I added a bunch of break-off parts for attaching the
servos.

Now with the PCB and the leg parts on order, all we have to do is
wait.

