---
blogpost: true
date: 2020-07-17
category: project-171381
---

# Micro-USB
Published on 2020-07-17 in {ref}`project-171381`.

The last version is all correct — it has all the pins in the right
places, the USB-C socket works well with the pull-down resistors in
place, there is a large prototyping area and the staggered pin holes.
Not much left to improve. However, if I think about the original goal
of being a cheap replacement for the Feather M0 Basic to be left in
projects or used for workshop, there is still some room for
improvement, so I decided to try one more time.

First of all, black silkscreen with yellow soldermask is uncommon
combination (which is a damn shame, it looks much better than white
silkscreen, and they use black silkscreen for white soldermask already
anyways), so to get the cheesy looks I would need to pay extra for the
uncommon color combination. So if I used a decoration that works well
with other colors, I could save here.

Second, USB-C cables are expensive, and USB-C ports are usually only
on new and expensive devices. If I organize a workshop, I want it to
be available for everyone, and not just the rich kids — so I would
have to provide USB-C to USB-A cables (expensive). However, the same
technique as used for the USB-C socket can be also used for the Micro-
USB socket — you won't get the satisfying click when the plug is
inserted, but otherwise it should work the same. And I can ditch the
two resistors then!

Third, the prototyping area on the Feather M0 Basic has some
additional rails for power — that would be useful and help avoid some
cable mess.

So I designed this:



:::{image} images/9382171594990082794.png

:::




:::{image} images/277211594990091459.png

:::


This version is a little bit more obviously Swiss, uses micro-USB
socket, and has a prototyping area with power rails and some extra
pads in it for squeezing SMD components in there. It also has the LED
in a position a little bit more similar to where original Feathers
have it, and a second prototyping area where the battery socket
normally goes. Otherwise it's all the same stuff as previously.

The PCBs are ordered and I will be testing the prototypes as soon as
they arrive. I will publish the designs if they test fine.

