---
blogpost: true
date: 2020-12-22
category: project-176476
---

# What? Why? How?
Published on 2020-12-22 in {ref}`project-176476`.

Ocarina is a pretty unique instrument. It's officially woodwind, even
though it usually doesn't contain a single piece of wood, being made
out of ceramics (though wooden ocarinas do exist, as well as plastic).
It usually has much richer and more interesting sound than all kinds
of pipes. And thanks to its appearance in several computer games, you
can easily find a lot of game music converted to ocarina tabs. The
six-hole ocarina is a specific type of this instrument, that has six
holes, and often can be worn on your neck as a pendant.



:::{image} images/6322161608676085982.jpg

:::


There is one big problem I have with my ocarinas, though, and that is
probably common to a lot of people who want to practice playing
instruments — nobody wants to listen to you practicing, especially if
you are pushing your current skill and making a lot of mistakes. For
piano players this is a solved problem: just get an electric keyboard
and play wearing your headphones! While there are also electronic
woodwind instruments, they are usually a bit weird, look nothing like
a six-hole ocarina, and use completely different fingering than an
ocarina does — so not very good for practice.

So I'm going to build my own. I need a sensor for detecting how hard
you are blowing, and six touch-sensitive pads, for detecting which
holes are covered and if they are covered whole or just partially (for
bending). I'm going to start with a simple USB MIDI output, so that I
can use a synth program on my computer to actually make the sounds,
but maybe I will also make a standalone version with a headphone jack
and a battery — we will see how the project progresses.

The first thing, and probably the hardest, is to decide on the breath
sensor. The most obvious solution is a pressure sensor, placed inside
some kind of a pipe, so that I can measure the air velocity. If that
doesn't work, I can use a variety of other solutions, from a
microphone to a heater and temperature sensor.

So I took a BMP280 breakout board, blue-tac-ed a piece of straw with a
hole on the side on top of it, and tested what readings I can get from
it. Initial tests are very promising, I can see a marked increase in
the sensor readings while blowing into the straw. More testing is
necessary to see how well this behaves, but I'm hopeful.



:::{image} images/1580021608676775316.jpg

:::


