---
blogpost: true
date: 2016-09-12
category: project-10665
---

# New Brain
Published on 2016-09-12 in {ref}`project-10665`.

Working on the code for walking, I managed to somehow damage the
ESP-12 module I was using -- it would get in a boot loop, and refuse
getting into the right boot mode even with the GPIO2 held down. After
checking everything, I removed the board from the robot, checked
everything once more, made a couple of measurements with the
multimeter to make sure there are no shorts or breaks, and, running
out of ideas, left it there for some time. Then I tried once more
time, and it worked this time -- I could flash it again. However, I
decided that I'm not going to rely on this module anymore (it's not an
original one), and since the PCB I used had a number of mistakes that
I had to work around, I decided to make a new board (I will still work
on the program using the old one, while the new one is getting
fabricated).

So here it is:


:::{image} images/2518641473710265623.png

:::


This time the PCB is exactly the same size as the ESP12 module. I
managed to squeeze all the servo sockets and the resistors in there,
and then decided to also add a voltage regulator (who knows, maybe the
old module died because of wrong voltage) and some room for the power
switch. Since there wasn't really any room for those, I put them under
the wifi antenna of the module. Yes, I know that it will lower the
range of the module and possibly introduce some interference. In the
worst case I will redesign it again. The challenge was squeezing an
additional power line in there (the servos still use the un-regulated
power straight from the battery), but I managed to do it with just a
couple of vias. The boards are ordered, should arrive in a couple of
weeks.

Once I had that done, I started to think about where it would be best
to put that board on the pony itself. So far it has been strapped to
the tail, because that was the largest free area, but it didn't look
right. Finally, I decided to put the brain in the head, roughly in the
same place where the real brain would be in a real pony. So I went to
the design files, and made a hole in the head to hold that PCB. I also
made some additional holes for the servo holders, and added the
holders to the design file (with a hole in the middle for the wires):


:::{image} images/7216591473710763584.png

:::


And I sent that to fabrication too. This time in a nice violet color,
and in 2mm thick acrylic.

