---
blogpost: true
date: 2016-11-09
category: project-6050
---

# Pimp Your Bot
Published on 2016-11-09 in {ref}`project-6050`.

The winter is coming, and my robots need some maintenance -- after a
year of traveling to various conferences and fairs, they accumulated a
number of injuries. It's also a good idea to recharge the lipo
batteries once in a while.

I started repairing the robots, replacing broken servos, tuning them,
etc. -- and at some point I realized that they actually look pretty
drab. Just a bunch of wires and servos, really. Of course, the idea
was to make them as simple and easy to make as possible, so that's
just expected, but still they don't look like something you would
actually want to have.  That's when I decided to take one of the
prototypes (incidentally, the one that I used for proprioception
experiments), and make a chassis for it, to make it look a little bit
better.\


So I went to the Internets and started to look through concept art of
various robots. I'm quite surprised and saddened by how many of those
are simply "a human in suit with a weird helmet". Oh well. Finally, I
found one drawn by Paul Denton that fits Tote well and should be
simple enough to make:


:::{image} images/4506301478726184776.jpg

:::


It's a bit dark and gritty, but that's even better -- any mistakes I
make will not be as visible. So I started with a plastic box -- from a
set of toy blocks for kids. Of course I started by cutting the
corners:
:::{image} images/2843691478726292182.jpg

:::
Then I removed the legs from the robot, and installed the PCB inside
the box:\



:::{image} images/7280851478726343324.jpg

:::


I had to cur the sides of the box, and also the "ears" on the servos
-- to make them fit properly without colliding with the box or with
themselves. Once I was happy with the shape, I hot-glued the PCB
securely in place and started painting. I'm using acrylic paints for
painting tabletop battle miniatures. It sticks pretty well to plastic.
:::{image} images/6281001478726589492.jpg

:::
Once I had the base coat ready and it all dried, I started to dry-
brush some of the wear and old paint on it, then dry-brushed the whole
thing with metallic paint, to make it look like beaten metal.\



:::{image} images/6727501478726680622.jpg

:::
Next, I had to do something with the wires. They are way too long,
there is not enough space inside to hide them, and they are the wrong
color. After some deliberation, I decided to just cut them to size:


:::{image} images/4658581478726748371.jpg

:::
And then I also painted them black. Some mor dry-brushing, and it's
almost ready. I also made a hole at the top for the IR sensor for the
remote to stick out.\



:::{image} images/6585081478726795228.jpg

:::
Next, I worked on the eyes. I found some plastic lenses for LEDs in my
drawer, and some red LEDs:\



:::{image} images/796701478726919340.jpg

:::
A bit of glue to secure the LEDs in place, some more to glue the
lenses into the eyes, and some resistors and wires, and it's almost
ready. Now I just need to wait for the glue to set...

