---
blogpost: true
date: 2021-06-23
category: project-180472
---

# Breakout
Published on 2021-06-23 in {ref}`project-180472`.

I quickly designed a very simple PCB breakout for the sensor — just
the 12 pads that are connected to something, in random order. I made
the pads slightly smaller than the ones on the flex PCB, to give
myself some wiggle room. Then I ordered it from my go-to place for
small boards: [@oshpark](https://hackaday.io/hacker/131216) .



:::{image} images/2337021624476353705.png

:::


A few weeks later the boards arrived, and I soldered the sensors up.
Turns out that soldering the flex PCB to a regular PCB is not so easy
either — not as easy as drag-soldering displays, anyways. But I
managed somehow:



:::{image} images/7979951624476470061.jpg

:::


It even fits nicely on the mini-breadboard's flat part, so I can press
the button! Next up is connecting all the wires and figuring out which
is which. But here, my laziness backfired on me.

You notice I didn't add any labels to the pins, and that they are
broken out in a rather random order — whatever was easiest to route. I
didn't have much energy back then, and I wanted to order those PCBs
fast, so they would arrive earlier. I was hoping I will have more
energy when the PCBs arrived, and can work around all the corners I
cut.

That didn't happen. I still need to glue a piece of paper to this
board, label the pins, and try connecting them. Motivation is a fickle
beast, and when I'm facing the prospect of a boring chore, such as
trying out all possible pin combinations in the hope that one of them
will finally work, my energy levels drop dramatically. I should have
foreseen that, but the future always looks so good from back there.

I decided to document this project and write those logs in the hope
that it will motivate me to continue this. Will it? Well, we will see
shortly, I suppose.

