---
blogpost: true
date: 2021-06-23
category: project-180472
---

# My Way
Published on 2021-06-23 in {ref}`project-180472`.

I decided that the sensor from a Blackberry 8520 has too fancy a
connector, which would be difficult to source and to solder (with a
0.4mm pitch), so I looked at other similar sensors, and picked one
from a Blackberry 9300. Originally it no doubt uses even fancier
connector, but the sensor-side is just a piece of flex PCB with a
bunch of pads on it — something that should be easy enough to solder
directly to a PCB.



:::{image} images/2660071624475346774.jpg

:::


So I got a pair of those, and got to work on them. The initial probing
yielded me this:



:::{image} images/1103321624475402648.jpg

:::


GND was easy to find, because it is connected with the ground fill on
the flex PCB. The VCC was easy too, because it's the only track that
is thicker than all the others. And finally pin 10 is not connected,
which was easy to figure out by visual inspection — there are no
traces going to it!

Next, I got out an ohmmeter and found that pins 12 and 13 are
connected to the tact switch on the bottom of the sensor. That is 6
out of 13 pins out of the way, 7 more left to go.

Those remaining pins should be, if this sensor is similar to the other
one, CS, SCK, MISO, MOSI, RESET, SHUTDOWN, and INTERRUPT (aka
MOVEMENT). There are lots of possible combinations here, but if you
look carefully at the traces, you will note that they are in fact
bundled in two distinct groups.  My bet is that one of those groups is
going to be all the SPI pins, and the other — the rest.

Well, we won't know until we try. So the next step was soldering some
wires to those pads, to connect them to a microcontroller and try
sending some signals. Unfortunately, it turns out that the pads are
way to small to do that, and soldering to a flex PCB is way too hard.
After a few failed attempts, I decided to make a custom PCB with a
footprint matching those pads. That delays the project a little bit.

