---
blogpost: true
date: 2019-09-02
category: project-165032
---

# Workshop Damage
Published on 2019-09-02 in {ref}`project-165032`.

Over the weekend we were running some workshops using the {ref}`project-159733` , and I brought the version 4 prototype along to show it to people. I
carried it both in my pockets and in a box full of tools, and then it
went through a lot of hands, including a couple of kids. This is a
great sample of the kind of handling I expect from this device, so it
was a nice wear-and-tear test. Unfortunately, the results are not very
good.



:::{image} images/4263471567376540148.JPG

:::


The 1mm thick acrylic cover is certainly a weak point. The two top
corners broke away, and the two bottom ones are already cracked and
ready to break as well. Also, the bar on top of the lanyard hole broke
off.

I could move the holes further down and maybe a bit towards the
center, to have more material there, but I think the whole idea of
holding down a 1mm acrylic sheet with self-tapping screws like this is
flawed. The top bar is not a problem — I can remove it completely from
the top layer. But I think I need to come up with a better way of
holding the two layers together (and then have the screws only hold
the middle layer, which is 2.5mm and shows no signs of cracking).

Glue is an obvious option, of course, but I'm afraid it could work
badly with the fact that the top plate is transparent, resulting in a
surface with visible bubbles and/or clouding, which wouldn't be too
nice to look at. A particularly interesting option would be to use an
acrylic with pre-applied adhesive tape on it — also because then the
tape could give me an additional 0.1mm of thickness that I need for
the USB port.

Another option would be to forget the laser-cutting, and instead go
for injection-molded case. I could then have the whole thing in one
piece, with the exact dimensions I need, with proper transparency, and
probably much cheaper in bulk as well. Also, rounded edges. Also, I
could probably even incorporate the battery holder in the case itself,
which would get rid of a tricky assembly step. The problem is that it
would be quite expensive in small quantities, as the most expensive
part is the mold itself.

Yet another option would be to use thicker top layer, and simply find
buttons that would work with it better. I might go on another button-
buying spree and see if I find something that would have a body that
fits in that 2.5mm space, but has the button itself sticking more than
the 2mm of the top layer. 

