---
blogpost: true
date: 2019-08-07
category: project-165032
---

# Buttons and More Prototypes
Published on 2019-08-07 in {ref}`project-165032`.

I have build a few more prototypes, to test different kinds of buttons
and see what could be done for the display attachment:



:::{image} images/7162101565175034427.jpg

:::


The displays are a bit of a problem: they don't stay perfectly flat on
the PCB, and there is light leaking from underneath. The two-sided
tape that is supposed to hold them in place is attached to the white
plastic foil on the bottom, which comes off easily, and the the
display no longer stays where it should. It all feels very flimsy and
unreliable. As you can see, I have tried hot glue, and that does the
job if done carefully, but looks awful and is a lot of manual work. So
the next plan to try is to make a laser-cut case, consisting of two
layers of transparent acrylic, to hold the display in place and also
give the PCB some bulk for more comfortable holding.

But that brings us back to the problem of buttons. The white silicone
buttons on the right side of the photo worked pretty well with the
case-less design: they are as flat as the display, so the device has
consistent thickness. They are clicky, but not too much, and they have
a nice feel. But they wouldn't stick out of the case if I added 2mm of
acrylic on top.

So next are the standard "6x6mm tactile switch" buttons that I have
used in all the PewPew consoles to date. They come in a variety of
heights, so I can always find one that sticks out enough, and there
are also plastic caps available that come on top of the buttons, that
further make them stick out more. But the base of the button is higher
than the display, so I would need some extra padding under the
display, or it wouldn't be held in place securely anymore.

The third ones are some buttons I found on Mouser. They are very nice,
soft-click, silicone buttons, with the legs wrapped under them, so I
wouldn't even have exposed solder joints visible, and with a pretty
orange color. The main body s the same height as the display, not
counting the flange. The problem is, they are rather expensive, and I
haven't found another source of them.

So for the next prototype I decided to try to get back to the silicone
buttons I used in {ref}`project-27629` . They are not clicky at all, but feel good enough. Their bodies are
4.5mm high, which is perfect for the 2.5mm height of the display plus
2mm of a cover. They only have two legs, so I save a little bit on
soldering. And they are black, so they look good with any color.

So I switched for the new buttons, moved things around a bit to make
it easier to laser-cut a sturdy inner layer, and ordered both the PCB
and the laser-cutting at [@Elecrow](https://hackaday.io/hacker/147848) . The PCB looks something like this:



:::{image} images/5199421565175877598.png

:::


