---
blogpost: true
date: 2019-08-14
category: project-165032
---

# Version 3 with a Case
Published on 2019-08-14 in {ref}`project-165032`.

Another iteration of the PCBs arrived, and this time also with the
laser-cut acrylic plates that form the case of the device. I have been
thinking about doing this ever since µGame, but only tried it now, and
I am very happy with the results. It looks like this:



:::{image} images/788771565811716598.jpg

:::


(Sorry for a bad photo, but it's dark already, I will make better
photos tomorrow.)

As you can see, the device is a sandwich of three layers: the PCB, a
filler layer, and the front cover. The front cover has to be
transparent so that we can see the display, and has cutouts for the
buttons. The filler can be made of anything — in this case it's also
transparent acrylic, like the front cover, but it doesn't have to be.
It has cutouts for all the components on the PCB, and it's exactly
2.5mm thick, just like the display. And finally the PCB holds all the
components, and has its back completely clear of any exposed pads. At
the back there is also the battery holder, and that's it. It's held
together with six screws, that screw into the smaller holes in the
front plate. The tips of the screws had to be cut, so that they don't
stick out, but I hope to find screws with flat tips instead. The whole
thing is 6.5mm thick right now, but I want to use a bit thinner front
plate in the future, so it will be 6mm.

Of course it's not perfect, there are a few changes that still need to
be done for the final version:


 * the buttons don't stick out enough, I need a thinner, 1.5mm (instead
of current 2mm) front cover,
 * the holes for the buttons are too tight — the buttons have to be in
just the right places for the covers to fit, I need to add some more
leeway in there,
 * the USB socket is minimally too thick. I will need a cutout for it,
 * I need room for a piezo speaker, since I decided to be adding one in
there,
 * I need some decorations on the PCB and maybe etched on the laser-cut
parts as well.

