---
blogpost: true
date: 2019-07-26
category: project-165032
---

# Error: Brains Not Found
Published on 2019-07-26 in {ref}`project-165032`.

Many of my updates start with "the PCBs have arrived", and this one is
no different. They have arrived, and not a moment too late, since the
weekend is coming, so I would have time to figure out the bootloader
and the filesystem in the firmware and all that stuff. Except that I
can't find the microcontrollers. I was sure I have bought some 48-pin
SAMD51 chips some time ago, anticipating using it for µGame Turbo, but
I can't find them. Perplexed, I checked my order history, and they are
not there. I must have dreamed that. Oh well, no hacking this weekend.
I ordered them now, but it will take at least 3 days for them to
arrive.

But at least I get to check the mechanical design. So I assembled all
the mechanical parts: buttons, screen, battery holder, USB socket and
power switch.



:::{image} images/5525211564157861232.JPG

:::


Immediately I noticed that the display connector requires shifting a
little bit to the left, as the flex cable is somewhat loose and
sticking out at the side. But that was to be expected. The battery
holder needs to be moved further up, to line up with the edge of the
screen, so that I have more room for my index fingers at the back.
That's easy to do.

The d-pad buttons are a bit too far apart — the original arrangement I
used in all the PewPews, width the left and right buttons squeezed
closer together, works better. No problem, easy change. The fire
buttons are a bit too far apart as well: the x ones is in the right
position, but the o one needs to be moved a bit towards the center.

I also tried sticking two additional buttons below the standard ones,
to have those two "utility" buttons for MakerCode, but then they get
in the way of thumbs. I need them to be closer together, which means
that the pin connector legend has to go to the back side.
Incidentally, that also frees a lot of space in the middle, so I can
move the microcontroller to that spot, and have much more room.

I already started making those changes in a new PCB design, but I will
wait with ordering it until the microcontrollers arrive, so I can also
include any required connection changes as well.



:::{image} images/6172411564158963660.png

:::


