---
blogpost: true
date: 2019-06-24
category: project-165032
---

# Ugh, Software
Published on 2019-06-24 in {ref}`project-165032`.

I finally found some time today to actually flash the CircuitPython
firmware on this device, and test it. Long story short, I will need
another version.

But let's start from the beginning. Some week ago a second order for
the buttons finally arrived (the first one is still "on its way" after
2 months), so I assembled both the {ref}`project-165983` and this little device. But testing it requires making a new board
definition for CircuitPython, and also burning the bootloader, so 
didn't bother with that — only updated the photo on the project.



:::{image} images/2798201561405967878.jpg

:::


Today I finally got to it. I had my J-Link out already, because I was
re-flashing the bootloader on some older projects, so I quickly
uploaded it to this one as well. That got me the energy to also copy
and modify the board definition of that OLED board I was prototyping
with earlier. Flashed it, copied the pew.mpy and the games, inserted
the battery, switched on, and... InvalidPinError.\


Turns out the pins PA17 and PA18, despite being marked in the SAMD21
datasheet as supporting SPI, can't be used for SPI with CircuitPython.
I'm not entirely sure why, to be honest, but I suspect it has
something to do with one of the SERCOM peripherals being used for
something else. And of course I didn't think about testing it before.
Well, technically it's not a show-stopper, I will just need to pick
another two pins, and there is a whole bunch of them free in there. In
fact, I already amended the PCB design to use PA10/PA11, which I also
tested to make sure they work:



:::{image} images/252261561406268991.png

:::


But that means a new PCB order, and desoldering/re-soldering of all
the components, and I still don't even know if the coin cell battery
is going to be able to power the thing with the display on, and it
would be awfully nice to know that before I make yet another prototype
(because then I could switch to a LiPO coin cell, and add a charging
circuit). So what can be done?

Bodging the wires doesn't look like a viable option with the QFN chip
hiding under the hot-glued display. The pins are just visible at the
edge, but I don't think I have such thin wires at hand, and the
surface is too small to actually support a good attachment.

I could attach wires only on the display side, and provide the signals
that switch it on from some other microcontroller. But that is a lot
of wires and work, and I just remembered about the bitbangio library,
which lets you have software SPI on any pins. All I have to do is
enable it to be included in the firmware, and add "import bitbangio as
busio" to my library file. A bit of fumbling to restore the previous
pin definition, and I have a ready firmware to flash. And... nothing.
The device keeps restarting on the battery power. Yay.

A quick swap of the battery to a rechargeable one, and lo and behold:



:::{image} images/5141161561407406718.jpg

:::


So now I know I will need to squeeze that battery charging circuit in
there somewhere. But I will leave that for some sleepless night.

