---
blogpost: true
date: 2019-09-23
category: project-165032
---

# The Melon of Doom... Needs Work
Published on 2019-09-23 in {ref}`project-165032`.

I assembled one of the version 6 prototypes, and so far I think that
the direction is good, but requires more work and experimenting. More
details after the obligatory photo.



:::{image} images/7275791569259649768.JPG

:::


As you can see, I went here with the short black tact switches and
caps without a cut, that are glued on top of them.

---------- more ----------The good:

* The holes don't seem to be uncomfortable and actually add a kind of
unique look.

* Large surface of the caps make the buttons much easier to press.

* It works well even without the bead in the center.

The bad:

* The regular tact switches are too high. The caps stick out of the
case too much.

* Glue is not the best tactic — it can't be disassembled and we risk
getting some inside the switches.

* The holes are a little too tight a fit.

* The screws are fine. They only go about half-way into the 2mm top
plate, but that is enough for a good grip.

* The piezo speaker fits perfectly.

* The black PCB really looks good with the acrylic.

The ugly:

* The fire buttons rotate. They have too much leeway, and since they
are not connected, there is nothing that would stabilize them.

* Because the holes are too tight, the d-pad doesn't sit perfectly
centered on the switches.



:::{image} images/641381569261070558.JPG

:::


So what are the next steps?

I will assemble another prototype, this time using the taller 6x6x6mm
switches, and the caps with a cut across the hole, for springiness.
Those should friction-fit on the tact switches, without glue.

I will try to get another set of caps laser-cut locally (and possibly
another front plate as well) to experiment with different shapes, and
different holes for different switches. In particular, I want to try
the low-profile 6x6x5.5mm ones from the previous log. Maybe also a
connected version of the fire buttons, and a bigger and rounded
version of the caps (if they are round, nobody cares if they rotate).
Maybe also a version of caps for the metal tact switches — but then I
would ultimately also need a new version of the PCB, as they have a
smaller footprint, which I can deal with for testing, but not for a
finished version.

I will also carry the prototype a bit in my pockets, to see what
breaks this time. I can see a couple of potentially fragile places, I
will probably need to move some of the screws around.

