---
blogpost: true
date: 2019-10-05
category: project-165032
---

# Pre-made Caps?
Published on 2019-10-05 in {ref}`project-165032`.

There is one more option for the button caps that I haven't properly
explored yet. I don't have to 3D-print them or have them custom
injection-molded if I can use existing parts from a commercial
console. Turns out that most popular consoles out there have a lively
modding community, and you can easily buy replacement button caps in a
variety of colors and styles, very cheaply. Sounds like the perfect
solution, right?

There is only one teeny-tiny detail that makes it tricky, and that is
the fact that you have to design your thing so that those parts fit
it. Of course the shapes of the holes in the laser-cut top plate can
be adjusted very easily, but the really crucial dimensions that I
don't have much control over are the thickness of the two plates.

There are generally three ways I can make this work: only use plastic
caps, and put tact switches under them, like the Pokitto does, only
use plastic caps, and put metal domes under them, like the 2DS does,
or go full retro and use both the plastic caps and the rubber domes. 

There is a number of advantages from doing it this way: the device is
still easy to buy from widely available parts, there is no additional
cost of making custom molds, the caps are profiled and nice to the
touch, and, last but not least, it's probably much cheaper, especially
if I get to re-use the rubber domes as well. As with everything, there
are disadvantages as well: with time those parts may become harder to
get, as new consoles replace the old ones on the market, I might be
unable to get the sizes right, it may be necessary to move the buttons
around to accommodate the domes, and perhaps even cut those domes
(since I use 3 buttons, not 4), and finally, the markings on the
buttons will be wrong (I use O, X, Z for the button names, most
consoles use A, B, X, Y or some weird symbols).

I happen to have a replacement d-pad and buttons for a Nintendo DS
Lite console, so let's see how that fits. They are made so that the
part that presses on the dome is flush with the bottom of the top-
plate, so I need a switch or dome that is exactly 2.5mm high — the
thickness of the middle layer. Looking in my drawer, I found those
3x4x2.5 buttons that I have used in the {ref}`project-165983` previously. They are exactly 2.5mm high, and rather small, which makes
them perfect for this. I quickly assembled a mock-up to see how they
feel:



:::{image} images/867321570275115263.jpg

:::


Funny how the cut-out in my existing plate almost perfectly matches
this. Maybe I was influenced byt my NDS when designing it? In any
case, the buttons fit and work well, though they are still very
clicky.

Problem is, even with just 2mm top plate, the d-pad barely sticks out
of it:



:::{image} images/6247181570275243707.jpg

:::


Ideally, I would want both plates to be from the same 2.5mm sheet, so
this may be a problem? To be honest I'm not entirely sure, because
despite being almost flat with the plate, it feels good. I guess more
testing will be necessary.

So far so good, let's see how it works with the rubber domes!
Unfortunately, I didn't have a spare rubber dome for NDSL, so I had to
disassemble my console to get one.



:::{image} images/170181570277542654.jpg

:::


Unfortunately, the rubber dome is exactly 2mm high, which leaves 0.5mm
for the d-pad to rattle and makes it sink into the front plate too
much. Also, the travel is much larger with the dome than it was with
the switches, which makes it feel even worse. This won't work.

I will need a d-pad that is taller, and a rubber dome that is 2.5mm
high. The latter might actually be easy, as I had a random rubber dome
(left over from the ODROID GO) lying around, and it turns out to be
around 2.5-3mm tall. A quick search reveals it's from the Game Boy
Color. Fine, how does the d-pad of the Game Boy Color look like? Hmm,
looks rather big, not sure how that will fit.

I think I will leave it for now, and see if I can get 6x6 switches
with low actuation force, while waiting for the new front plate and
caps. If that doesn't work, I guess I will need to order one of each
kind of caps for console modding, and see if any of those works. At
least I have some options here.

