---
blogpost: true
date: 2020-08-01
category: project-174095
---

# It's That Time of the Year Again
Published on 2020-08-01 in {ref}`project-174095`.

Every year near the end of summer I get a sudden urge to get a new
computer keyboard. This year it came earlier. It used to be that I
would scour the Internet for the available keyboards in my price
range, or visit brick-and-mortar computer shops to try the keyboards
in person. But some three or four years ago I started making my own
keyboards, and so now instead of lamenting the lack of good keyboards
on the market, I can lament the price of the mechanical keyboard
switches.

One secret to avoid breaking the bank is to build small keyboards —
ones that have as few keys as possible. This is probably why the
mechanical keyboard community is full of those chocolate-bar-shaped
little designs. So, if I must make one again, let's make it
minimalist. I also decided to avoid any large keys — as stabilizers
for them are a huge problem, keep the standard 0.75" key spacing, and
generally make everything as simple as possible.

I started with the venerable Plack layout, and tried to make it even
smaller. I removed the two extra columns from both sides of the
keyboard, and moved the keys to the bottom row, making them share the
physical key with the modifiers. The reasoning is that you very rarely
use a modifier key on its own, so I can make those keys work as
modifiers when pressed together with other keys, but generate normal
key presses when pressed and released on their own. There are some
timing issues involved, but I think I will be able to make that work.

Another change I made was to move the arrow keys into their
traditional inverted-T shape. Finally I added the right alt (because I
need it for the Polish keyboard layout) and CapsLock (which is mapped
to Compose), and that's the result:



:::{image} images/1968611596235046748.png

:::


Next I had to decide what switches to use. Initially I was tempted to
finally test the Kailh laptop X switches, but after looking at the
price (nearly $2 a piece), I decided that's a little bit too much, and
defaulted to the Kailh Chocolate White switches, together with a set
of key caps for them. Having those on order, I proceeded to design the
PCB.

I already had the footprint made for Fritzing, so it was just a
question of arranging and connecting all the pieces:



:::{image} images/6361561596235232508.png

:::




:::{image} images/3405841596235245265.png

:::


If you look closely, you will notice that the USB port overlaps with
two of the switches. The plan is to see if I can modify the switches
to make room for the port, and if not, then instead solder a USB cable
directly to the headers below, skipping the port completely. I didn't
want any part of the PCB to stick out of the outline of the keys.

I still have five GPIO pins available for easy routing (and two in
harder to access places, plus two programming pins I could possible
re-use), so I'm considering adding LEDs under the modifier keys.

