---
blogpost: true
date: 2020-09-17
category: project-174095
---

# Revisions
Published on 2020-09-17 in {ref}`project-174095`.

After using the keyboard for a few weeks (and getting much better at
touch-typing in the process) I got very much used to it, so I was
hesitating if I should scavenge it and rebuild it with the new PCBs
that just arrived. And if I should, then which one?

In the end I decided to do it, and also to scavenge the {ref}`project-167897` , so that I can build both versions. The 48-key version went first:



:::{image} images/8051961600342150241.jpg

:::


Nothing surprising in here, I just had to edit the layout matrix to
include the two extra columns, and it just works. I'm using it right
now, and it works great for me. It's definitely a keeper. I didn't
even need to add a stabilizer under the space. Oh, of course I
reversed the D+ and D- labels for the USB cable, but that's easily
fixed.

Then I came back to the smaller one, but with LEDs. Turns out that
soldering by hand a string of 40 SMD APA102 LEDs is more work than I
anticipated:



:::{image} images/5514051600342361007.jpg

:::


After several hours of looking for shorts, re-soldering, fixing bad
joints and generally having a bad time, I finally got them all to
light up:



:::{image} images/781111600342528664.jpg

:::


And no, I have no idea why the last 6 of them are brighter. Probably a
glitch in the matrix. You get it? Hahahaha. Anyways...

Adding the switches and some transparent key caps was just a
formality:



:::{image} images/7831071600342639417.jpg

:::


Right now I left it with the keyboard code, but I'm thinking I could
use it as a macro keyboard instead, with each key just sending a
unique key combination when pressed. And of course with some fancy LED
animations. But that's just all code.

I was considering putting those PCBs on Tindie as kits, with all the
elements except switches and cable already soldered, but after
debugging the LEDs, I think I will pass on that. I might do it with
the bigger one without the LEDs, though. I wonder if there would be
any interest in that?

