---
blogpost: true
date: 2017-10-10
category: project-27161
---

# Why I Hate Analog Circuits
Published on 2017-10-10 in {ref}`project-27161`.

I'm completely hopeless with analog circuits. I think part of it might
actually be a self-fulfilling prophecy — I know that I'm bad at it, so
I'm not even trying. Usually I just try and copy any analog pieces I
need from other projects, cargo-culting them and hoping they will
work. A case in point: the audio shield.


:::{image} images/2296211507656446424.jpg

:::
Simplicity itself. A small audio amplifier, connected through a
resistor and capacitor to the DAC pin on one side, and to an SMD
speaker on the other. What could possibly go wrong?

First of all, I re-used a footprint for the PAM8301 amplifier, using a
part for some sparkfun's DAC chip. It's exactly the same size, I just
changed the labels on the pins. What I failed to note is that the pins
on that chip are numbered in the opposite direction than on my
amplifier. So to start with, I had to bend the pins of the chip the
other way and dead-bug it. Fine.

Next thing I am a little less sure of. I mean, I am sure it doesn't
work, but I'm not sure why. If I connect a piezo to the DAC pin
directly, I get the sound that I'm playing (although very quietly). If
I use the amplifier (with a 47kΩ resistor and 0.1µF capacitor between
the pin and the input of the amp), I get nothing. And it gets warm.
Sounds like it's simply connected wrong, but I verified the PCB and
the datasheet a million times already.

I must be missing something obvious, here's the schematic so that you
can laugh at my ignorance:\



:::{image} images/6246001507657158855.png

:::
Oh, and yes, I copied it. From Adafruit's Circuit Playground Express
board, which also uses a SAMD21 chip and a very similiar SMD speaker.

