---
blogpost: true
date: 2017-10-14
category: project-21578
---

# Boards from Aisler
Published on 2017-10-14 in {ref}`project-21578`.

Recently I found a board maker similar to OSHPark, but based in
Germany, Europe. Could it be that my wish came true? As soon as I had
a new version of PewPew's PCBs designed, I decided to try them.

The prices seem similar to what OSHPark offers: at OSHPark I paid
$8.95 for three 2.00x0.90 inch PCBs, here it's €8.43. However, OSHPark
has free shipping (which constitutes the bulk of the waiting time for
me), while Aisler charged me additional €4.96 for shipping. But that's
totally fine by my if the boards land in my mailbox faster this way.

There is a bit of disappointment here, though. I made my order on 28th
of September, and for nearly two weeks nothing happened. I finally
went to check the order's status two days ago, and it said on the
website that they will be fabricating it within 1 hour. I assumed that
it's just a fancy message, but indeed one hour later the message
changed to information that they are shipping it within minutes, and
later that day that it shipped. The boards arrived two days later.

So in theory, it could be much faster than OSHPark, which usually
makes my boards within a few days, and then they take two weeks to get
here. However, in practice waiting for fabrication made it about the
same. Perhaps it will get better as they get more orders and the
panels will fill up faster?

Now about the boards themselves. Here's a photo:



:::{image} images/7289111507976017753.jpg

:::


First of all, as you can see, the boards are green. As with OSHPark
there are no color options, which is fine, but green is a bit boring.
Their website is all orange, it would be super-awesome to get some
orange boards! Oh well, green is fine.

There is ENIG finish, just like with the OSHPark boards.

Both the solder mask and the silkscreen are much lower resolution than
what you get with OSHPark. If you look at the chip footprint on the
left, you will see that every pin pad is different width — that's the
effect of low-res solder mask. You can also see that the head of the
sheep logo bled into the outline — that's the effect of low-res
silkscreen. For comparison, boards from OSHPark and SeeedStudio:



:::{image} images/9381811507976736408.jpg

:::


Finally, the board outline. I'm really shocked about that: it looks
like it was cut out with a hatchet by a drunk worker. I guess I
shouldn't have ordered during the Octoberfest.

I still need to assemble the board and see if it works, but all the
traces look fine visually. We will see how that goes.

