---
blogpost: true
date: 2017-09-24
category: project-21578
---

# Some Fixes
Published on 2017-09-24 in {ref}`project-21578`.

I wrote the library for the PewPew 3.0 version, and also did some more
testing of the hardware, which uncovered a number of mistakes.

First of all, I forgot a pull-up resistor for the SDB pin of the
IS31FL3733 that acts as enable pin — which means the display would
switch off randomly. I added that with a piece of wrapping wire.\


Second, the battery circuit didn't work, and it took me a while to
realize that I forgot to connect it to the rest of the power of the
device. That requires a Shottky diode, so that we don't send power up
the USB cable when it's connected. Since I didn't have any at hand, I
ordered them, and for now used a regular rectifier diode. The voltage
drop is higher, but it works fine with fully charged battery. That was
another pice of wrapping wire added.


:::{image} images/5996931506246678085.jpg

:::
Both of those fixes are now included in the next version of the PCB.

Then there are smaller issues. I realized that since this is going to
be used for education, it's likely that the device is going to be
subjected to a lot of stresses. That was one of the reasons for using
a LED matrix and not a glass display, for instance. But the USB port
looks very vulnerable where it is, and I wanted to make sure it will
be attached very firmly. So I moved the fire buttons a little bit
towards the center of the board, to make room for a row of vias right
under the USB socket. That should really secure it in place properly.\


Next, the SWD pads (in the lower right corner) are a little too close
to each other for convenient debugging, so I moved them a little and
spaced them farther apart, and also broke out GND and !RST pins on the
other side of the board, so that I can get to the bootloader more
conveniently.

Then I went and tried to build a custom CircuitPython firmware for
this board, and it turns out that it's relatively easy to remap the
pins — so I moved the pins around a little, to free the PA02 DAC pin.
Some more experimenting, and it seems I can free up enough room by
removing unused modules to include the audioio module. Together with
the free DAC pin that means I can have some sound.

So I moved the traces for the display to pack them a bit more densely,
and sqeezed a small PAM8301 amplifier in there, and a pair of pads for
soldering an SMD speaker. The end result looks something like this:


:::{image} images/2393531506247365986.png

:::
I also remembered about [a recent hack with Trinket M0](https://daveastels.com/2017/09/01/trinket-m0-express-hack/)  that expands the available flash memory with an SPI flash chip. That
would actually solve a lot of problems for me, and a quick check
revealed that the pins that are being used are indeed free in my
design. However, there is physically no room for a SOIC-8 chip in
there.

I might actually try and go for the sandwich approach, with a second
PCB acting as the back plate for the whole device — the cost of the
PCB would be negligible, and I would have so much more room for
everything...

