---
blogpost: true
date: 2017-05-01
category: project-21578
---

# The Buttons
Published on 2017-05-01 in {ref}`project-21578`.

When I started planning this board, I only knew the HT16K33 LED driver
chip (well, ok, also the MAX 7129, but that's ancient). That chip has
a pretty cool feature -- by adding a diodes to the column pins you can
re-use them to scan a matrix keypad at the same time as they drive the
LED matrix. The chip even does de-bouncing for you, you just have to
read the state of the keys from its registers. Super-convenient for a
device like this.

Unfortunately, the IS31FL3733 chip that I'm using now, while it allows
me to control the brightness of each individual pixel, doesn't have
such a keyboard-scanning feature. But wait, the datasheet mentions
something similar -- it has an open/short LED detection. Isn't a
closed button pretty much electrically equivalent to a shorted LED? I
could use this, together with the extra column pins that I don't use
(the chip supports 12x16 matrixes, I only have 8x16) to scan the
buttons!

I designed the first prototype with that idea in mind. The buttons are
connected -- through resistors, for safety -- in place of LEDs on an
extra column. Once the PCB arrived and I assembled it, I could start
my tests.

Turns out getting this mechanism to work properly is a little bit
involved. First, the LEDs need to be enabled by writing 1s to the
corresponding registers on the page 0. Then, the power register on
page 3 needs to be set to 1, the minimum power setting. I
experimentally determined that this step is not actually strictly
necessary for the mechanism to work, but it's probably there for
safety, and it prevents the LED matrix from flashing brightly while
the chip tests all the lines. Finally, you have to trigger the testing
by writing 1 to a bit field in the config register on page 3. Then you
have to wait 3.264ms, and finally you can set the current back to what
it was, clear the bit field in the config register, and read the LED
status from the registers on page 0. Easy.


:::{image} images/39751493638552640.jpg

:::


I got my code to work, and decided to try and write a simple snake
game to see how well it all works. Turns own that it works pretty bad.

You see, to get a decent responsiveness from the buttons, I need to
scan them often. At the minimum once per the game's animation frame.
Humans are very sensitive in delays in tactile and visual areas --
especially tactile. So I need to scan often. But you see, to scan I
need to drop the current to the minimum setting, which effectively
switches the display off. And if I do it for 3.265ms every frame, I
get a nasty flickering. The board also makes some suspicious high-
pitched noises, which can't be good.

So that's it for the first prototype. I need to find a better way of
handling the buttons. That prototype was going to be trashed anyways,
because I made the holes for the matrix pins too small -- that's why
the matrix is soldered on top, and not flush with the board on the
photos.

