---
blogpost: true
date: 2017-07-21
category: project-21578
---

# The Challenge
Published on 2017-07-21 in {ref}`project-21578`.

I'm in a ranty mood today, so I will write a little bit about why I
decided to make this and how I hope it will work.

You have probably heard about the Raspberry Pi and the Micro:bit.
Those projects are both parts of a larger effort to liberate people
and give them back the control of their own devices. The modern
computers, tablets, smartphones, game consoles and even toys are black
boxes today. They are supposed to make you enjoy consuming carefully
designed user experiences, without much thinking. Oh sure, they cater
to your creative side too, letting you write comments with lots of
emoji, upload user-generated content that you no longer own, or write
a product review. In the mean time, as the population ages, we are
running out of technically skilled people that are able to maintain
and build those devices.

You might think that the obvious solution is to simply educate more
people to do the technical jobs. But that doesn't work. The school
doesn't teach you the important skills of an engineer. Schools are
designed to kill the passions, not to make them grow. The best
engineers out there are the ones who spent their lives tinkering with
things, who were curious and fascinated with them, who needed to know
how they work, needed to see for themselves, and then needed to modify
the devices and make them their own. But you can't understand how a
computer works today â€” it's much too complex a beast. And tinkering
with game consoles can get you in the jail in no time. There are
simply no stepping stones between a bright kid and an officially
recognized engineer.

Raspberry Pi helps, because it gives a cheap computer that you can
actually play with, that you can break and fix and break again, and
nobody will lose their jobs because of that, like they might if you
broke the family's computer. A computer that you can connect things
to, and make it behave like a retro game console.

However, once you do all the soldering and connect the screen and
joystick and put it in a cute box and so on, you simply load an
emulator for one of the many old game systems, download the ROMs for
the retro games, and continue consuming content as if nothing changed.
Sure, you learned something about connecting wires and configuring
Linux kernel hardware overlays, but you still have no idea how those
games actually work, and you still wouldn't be able to make your own.

The Micro:bit is much better in that regard, as it is infinitely
simpler and easier to understand, and you program it at a much lower
level. You can program it at school and then take home and play with
it even if you don't have a computer at home. You can show it to your
friends and parents. You can make it do amazing things.

But you can only make very simple games on it.

There are only two buttons, and while you can use the accelerometer
and compass as inputs, this is very limiting. Even worse, the 5x5
display is not very good for most games either. Sure, you can connect
additional buttons and LED matrices or screens, but that requires much
more experience, and you probably have to leave it all at school, as
it's too unwieldy to carry around in your pocket.

So we need something simpler. Something that is as simple and easy to
program as the Micro:bit, but more colorful, more convenient, closer
to the "real" games out there. Something that doesn't require amazing
graphical skills and hundreds of hours of work of artists, but still
looks good. Something that you can program and take with you in your
pocket. Something that plugs into an existing ecosystem of modules,
extensions and tutorials, so that you are not left alone on your own.
Something that is sturdy and rugged, so that it will survive being
carried around in the pocket while you climb trees and fight pirates.\


Physically, the device doesn't need to be complex. It should be small,
it should have the familiar d-pad and fire keys, and a display capable
of displaying colors. It should be low-resolution, so that you don't
need to be a pixel-art wizard. It should plug into one of the existing
development kits, preferably ones that can be easily powered with a
battery.

Internally, it needs to be easy to program without any special
software (which is a big downside of the Micro:bit) in a simple to
learn language. It should come with a library that makes it easy to
write the games, but doesn't take away the control. And most
importantly, it should come with a detailed tutorial describing a
dozen of example games, each introducing a new challenge and a new
concept that can be learned to overcome it. Oh, and of course it
shouldn't be more expensive than the original board it plugs into.\


The target audience is a little bit older than that of the Micro:bit.
Some of the concepts involved are quite difficult, and require more
focus and abstract thinking than an average 11-yo is capable of. It's
also not supposed to be taught at school, but rather be a standalone
toy for self-study, similar to how the early microcomputers were.

