---
blogpost: true
date: 2017-05-01
category: project-21578
---

# The Concept
Published on 2017-05-01 in {ref}`project-21578`.

Here are some more details about the whole concept of this board.


:::{image} images/8853571493640154348.png

:::


The board will be the size of a standard FeatherWing shield -- same as
the Adafruit Feather boards, and of course it will plug into those
boards. It should work with any of the Feather boards, but I only plan
to make the drivers and library available in CircuitPython -- so if
you want to use it with any of the boards that don't run
CircuitPython, you will need to write the software yourself -- but
then again, you are then probably pretty experienced anyways.

The board will have a bi-color 8x8 LED matrix for display, and 6
buttons for input. It will also contain the electronics for handling
the display and buttons. I might add some way of making sounds, but
that's not decided yet.

The FeatherWing will communicate with the Feather using IÂ²C protocol
and the two standard pins traditionally used for that on the Feather
boards, using a few fixed addresses. All the other pins will be free
to be used with other add-ons. The prototypes may be using additional
pins for experimenting, but ultimately I want them to be free.

The power is drawn from the Feather board, which in turn can be
powered either through USB, or with a LiPo battery connected to the
battery connector. A {ref}`project-21605`  can also be used.

Since the top side of the board is pretty much all taken by the
display and buttons, the components have to be placed on the bottom
side of the board. They should however be as flat as possible, as to
not collide with the components on the top side of the board below.

There will be a number of CircuitPython libraries for the low-level
components of the board, as well as a high-level library dedicated to
this particular board and to making games with it. That high-level
library might use some simplifications and may add limitations to what
can be done, for the sake of making things simpler. Experienced users
can bypass that limitation by calling the low-level libraries instead.

There will be a number of example games implemented for this board, as
well as at least one tutorial describing in detail the steps required
to write such a game. All those games will be written in
CircuitPython. Some of the larger games might not work on all the
Feather boards, due to memory limitations.

Apart from playing games, the board can also be used for controlling
other devices -- if a Feather board that has WiFi, Bluetooth or packet
radio capabilities is used, or if an add-on giving such capabilities
is connected. This will not be covered in the main library, though.
(Also, multiplayer games could be possible, but that is also outside
the scope for now.)

