---
blogpost: true
date: 2017-12-06
category: project-21578
---

# The Aisler Saga, Part 2
Published on 2017-12-06 in {ref}`project-21578`.

A few weeks ago I found in my mailbox a strange box from Aisler I was
a little bit surprised, as I didn't order anything from them since the
last time, [when I tried their service for the first time](https://hackaday.io/project/21578/log/68755-boards-from-aisler) . The box contained another 3 PCBs of version 4.1, and a steel stencil
for one side. A few days later another parcel arrived, with another 3
PCBs and a stencil for the other side. This would have been great,
except at the moment I was already two versions further into the
design, and the boards just added to the pile of the trash PCBs I will
never use. Sigh.

So I wrote [@Felix Plitzko ](https://hackaday.io/hacker/147192) an e-mail, explaining that I don't really have the time right now to
try those boards, that they are wrong version anyways, and that they
should not send me anything without asking. I never got any answer to
that e-mail, but no further packages arrived, so I guess I am good. I
also promised to look at those boards and stencils at some point in
the future, just to see how the service improved. So let's look at
them.



:::{image} images/7678901512594032006.jpg

:::


This is the back of the board, and the corresponding stencil. I have
to admit that all the dense thin pads for the ISSI chip are exactly
the same, and generally I can't see any problems with the solder mask
or copper. The silkscreen is still a little low-res, but it's somehow
much more readable. There outline of the ISSI chip is a bit broken on
the silkscreen, but that might as well be a Fritzing bug — it has a
lot.

You can also see that the drunk German who is cutting out those boards
with a hatchet got over his hangover from Octoberfest, but is still
not very precise. What's worse, each of the PCB has those leftover
tabs different — which I will get back to in a moment.

As for the stencil, it looks correct at first, but if you look
closely, there are three strange things. First, there are no pads for
the USB socket. I suppose they got confused by all the vias I placed
there for mechanical support, and skipped them. Second, there is no
hole for the ISSI chip's heatsink. To be frank, I don't know if there
is supposed to be one or not — I'm not familiar with stencil practice.
Third strange thing is that there are holes in the stencil for the
power switch's mounting holes. Am I supposed to put solder paste into
them?

Let's look at the other stencil:



:::{image} images/878691512594632225.jpg

:::


This one is much simpler and less mysterious. There is only one
problem here, which is the missing pad for the "up" button.
Interestingly, no holes for the power switch this time, even though,
being holes, they are present on both sides of the PCB. I guess it's
enough to fill them with solder paste from one side.

Fine, so there are some mistakes in there. That happens, especially
since I had no idea they are going to be making stencils out of my
design, and so I didn't pay attention to take care of any details
relevant to that. You would still think that they would put more care
into checking their "demo" work.

So let's try and actually use a stencil. I never tried one before, so
I was curious. I choose the top one, with the buttons, because that
part of my design didn't change much and I wouldn't be wasting parts
soldering an old version of the project. Also, buttons are easier to
recover.

So first I had to somehow align the PCB with the stencil. On the
movies I saw that you usually have your stencil taped by one side to
something, then tape some stuff around your PCB to fix it in place in
an aligned position. I couldn't get that to work, it was just too
difficult to move the PCB under the template to align it. It would
have been much easier if the template also had the mounting holes or
something — but I guess then the solder paste would get into them.

Eventually I untaped the stencil, aligned the PCB by holding both in
my hands, and taped some stuff around the PCB to the template to fix
the position. Success.

Now try a second PCB, and... it doesn't fit. Because those hacked tabs
are uneven, and give different spacing. So I would need to manually
align every single PCB I wanted to use with this stencil, or find a
different way of securing the PCBs in place (tape the stuff around it
so as to avoid the tabs).



:::{image} images/5884161512595279976.jpg

:::


All in all, in summary:


 * the boards are good quality, and even improved,
 * the board outline still has leftovers from the tabs they added for
panelization, but you can't just remove them with sharp knife as you
can with every other PCB fab, because they don't have the holes,
 * those tabs are uneven and make it difficult to align the boards with
the stencils,
 * the stencils have a number of mistakes on them.

I will most likely use Aisler again, especially if I have a project
where I don't much care about the board outline.

