---
blogpost: true
date: 2023-12-12
category: project-186921
---

# Sound Volume Reduced
Published on 2023-12-12 in {ref}`project-186921`.

I have been quiet the past few months about this project, because I
was still struggling with power problems. Adding the boost converter
was a great idea, and it works very well, but if you make the speaker
play white noise, it will still overwhelm the batteries and make the
voltage drop enough that the display resets, and you get a white
screen of death.

I tried lowering the gain on the amplifier (I dedicated an extra GPIO
pin for that, so that I can do it with software), but it didn't help.
So I let the project sit for a while, while I waited for inspiration.

The inspiration struck a few days ago, and I was lucky that I could
test it immediately, by cutting a trace on the board and soldering a
resistor in series with the speaker. I know, it sounds obvious now,
but you have to remember that I have very little experience with
analog circuits. So yeah, the resistor limits the current drawn by the
speaker, at the cost of lowering the volume somewhat. But now the
screen doesn't reset, and the volume was too loud for my tastes
anyways.

I think this was the last problem I was struggling with, and the next
step is to bodge the remaining ten prototypes I have assembled and run
a workshop with them, to see if the participants find any new and
exciting problems. If they don't, and I will start looking into
producing and selling them.

