---
blogpost: true
date: 2023-08-09
category: project-186921
---

# Jumping Fritzing
Published on 2023-08-09 in {ref}`project-186921`.

There hasn't been much activity here, mostly because I didn't really
know where to take this project. I don't want it to become my second
job, designing, supporting and selling a shiny product, ready to use
for people who don't want to contribute anything themselves, but I
don't really have any better idea about how to get it into the hands
of those who want to be creative with it. So I kinda let it float in
limbo until I figure this out.

The USB-C version worked very well, I'm going to keep that. But I
think there is room for improvement in the power circuit, and the
sound could use some work as well. So those are the things I need to
work on next. I already have an I2S amplifier chip tested in a
different project that I can use here, and I got the MOSFETs for doing
the "ideal diode" circuit, and maybe also for the backlight control.
Maybe I will even use the boost converter chips I got for testing, to
make it run longer on the same batteries.

As for distribution, I have decided to move the design from Fritzing
to EasyEDA, so that you can order the PCB with assembly from JLCPCB
with a single click. Hopefully this will let the people who want it to
get it easily, while freeing me from having to sell it.



:::{image} images/7199241691579534661.png

:::


So I'm basically re-doing the whole thing in EasyEDA now, also picking
more easily sourced parts as I go. So far I only needed one custom
footprint, for the display itself, but I think I will need to also
modify the button footprint to make the pads a little bit shorter.
Otherwise it's going well â€“ a few more sleepless nights, and it should
be finished.

Oh, and as a bonus, there is a 3D render!



:::{image} images/756071691579781324.png

:::


